Robert Mugabe resigned as president of Zimbabwe Tuesday, parliament speaker Jacob Mudenda announced, bringing the curtain down on a 37-year reign.
Mugabe was swept from power as his autocratic rule crumbled within days of a military takeover. “I Robert Gabriel Mugabe in terms of section 96 of the constitution of Zimbabwe hereby formally tender my resignation… with immediate effect,” said speaker Mudenda, reading the letter.
The bombshell news was delivered to a special joint session of parliament.
Lawmakers had convened to debate a motion to impeach Mugabe, who has dominated every aspect of Zimbabwean public life since independence in 1980.
It was greeted on the streets of the capital Harare with car horns and wild cheering.
It capped an unprecedented week in which the military seized control, tens of thousands of Zimbabwean citizens took to the streets to demand the president go and 93-year-old Mugabe wrestled to remain in power.
Mugabe had ruled Zimbabwe almost unopposed since the country won independence from Britain.
But his efforts to position his wife Grace as his successor triggered fury in the military that had underpinned his regime.
rm-gw/ri -AFP By RAY NDLOVU and JAMES THOMPSON Hooters blared and cheering crowds raced through the streets of Harare late yesterday after word spread that Zimbabwe’s President Robert Mugabe had resigned after 37 years in power. Within minutes, people exploded onto the streets in a rush of euphoria and disbelief. The announcement… November 22, 2017 In "Politics" Robert Mugabe resigned as Zimbabwe’s president on Tuesday‚ shortly after parliament began an impeachment process to end his nearly four decades of rule. Parliament was convened to impeach him with all political parties and independent legislators singing from the same hymn book. There was so much interest parliament had to… November 21, 2017 In "News" Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, in a much-expected TV address Sunday, stressed he was still in power after his authoritarian 37-year reign was rocked by a military takeover. “The (ruling ZANU-PF) party congress is due in a few weeks and I will preside over its processes,” Mugabe said, pitching the country… November 19, 2017 In "Featured"