Gospel powerhouse Nobathembu is in East London today to record Living Testimony, her first live DVD /CD at the Guild Theatre. The East London-born former Joyous Celebration member will be supported by singers Ayanda Shange, Thinah Zungu and Yanga. Speaking with the Daily Dispatch yesterday, Nobathembu said she felt now was the the time to do her live DVD recording, which starts at 6pm tonight and will be available next year before Easter. “In 2014, I went on the living testimony tour and that show has birthed this live recording. God has blessed me with a writing gift and I have been making compositions,” she said. While God has been giving Nobathembu different melodies, she has also been taking the gospel to other parts of the world. “Last month, I toured the United Kingdom. I visited London, Scotland and Manchester. All the shows were sold out. I didn’t know that I was loved in that part of the world,” she said, adding that she has also been doing shows in various countries around the continent. Since leaving Joyous Celebration in 2013, Nobathembu’s brand continues to grow and she says it’s by God’s grace. “The favour of God has sustained me all these years. He has been so good to me. I have been going strong and performing all over the world as a solo act. It can only be God,” she said. Her writing gift has seen her write songs for the likes of Malibongwe Gcwabe, Khanyisa, Hlengiwe Mhlaba and Joyous Celebration. “I live and breath music. There’s always a melody, whether I am cooking, cleaning, watching TV, there’s always a song waiting to be written,” she said. She said choosing songs for her live recording was quite difficult. “I have more than 100 songs and when it came down to choosing songs for the recording it was not easy,” she said, adding that the music she had chosen would minister to a lot of people. “I have been blessed with a voice that can sing any genre but I chose this ministry because I want to bring healing and hope to God’s people,” she said. The recording has been organised by an East London company, C Tone Productions. The company’s managing director, Luzuko Kohli, said: “Artists don’t have to go to Johannesburg to do live DVD recordings – we can do them here.” Tickets cost R150 for the live recording, and will be available at the Guild Theatre.