If you played Phanda, Pusha, Play at a Spar outlet in Dutywa for last Saturday’s Lotto draw, then you could win Millions. And not just R1-million but R50-million, as the winning ticket of the November National Lottery draw was purchased at the Richardson Road Spar in the small Dutywa town. The R50-million jackpot win is the biggest in the Eastern Cape, with previous winners walking away with R9-million and R5-million respectively. The lucky winner, whose life could drastically change, has 365 days to claim their prize money. National Lottery head of marketing, Khensani Mabuza, has urged lotto players from the area to double-check their tickets. “We would like to ask the people of Eastern Cape who played the Lotto and any other national lottery game to please check their tickets and claim their prize of the current R50-million,” she said, adding that winners could visit www.nationallottery.co.za or call 0800-484-822. “We have provided various ways of making it easy for our players to check if they are winners. These include our website and we have ticket checker machines at select retail stores.” The winner will have to produce their ID, the winning ticket, a bank statement and proof of residence to claim their jackpot. “You can also check from your retailer where you bought your ticket. “We advise our players to keep playing, and of course, to always check the ticket even if you’re almost certain you haven’t won,” Mabuza said. While she could not provide details of previous unclaimed prizes from the Eastern Cape, she said the province has had a number of winners in the past few years including a R9-million winner in 2015 and a lucky R5-million winner last year. Following the announcement of the as yet unclaimed R50-million, social media users took to the Lottery’s Facebook page. One user wrote: “Some people were not born to struggle and suffer, they were born blessed and to live a blessed life till they die. Dutywa has a millionaire.” “Another user posted, “It’s going to be sad if they lost the ticket or washed it up.” — bhongoj@tisoblackstar.co.za IS IT YOU? A person who bought a lottery ticket for R15 has become rich beyond all dreams — but has not yet come forward to claim the winnings. The Lotto Plus jackpot of R26.5 million was won last night‚ 1 March 2017‚ by a punter who made a manual… March 2, 2017 In "News" New national lottery operator Ithuba is investigating how an Eastern Cape man was issued seven Lotto and Powerball “quickpick” tickets with the same sequence of numbers. Kuselo Mtyamde, 56, of East London is an avid Lotto player but has questioned the authenticity of the gambling game after buying the tickets… August 12, 2015 In "Metro" A jackpot lottery prize worth R21-million will lapse if it is not claimed in the next two days, national lottery operator Gidani said this afternoon. Spokeswoman Dudu Ndendwa said the winning ticket was bought in Ekurhuleni, Gauteng, and would expire on March 19. The six winning numbers for draw 1380… March 17, 2015 In "News"