ANN7 and The New Age owner Mzwanele Manyi has been ordered to remove social media posts he made against billionaire entrepreneur Magda Wierzycka within 24 hours. The Johannesburg High Court made the order on Monday after it was heard as an urgent matter on September 13. Acting Judge Fiona Dippenaar granted an interim order which interdicted Manyi from making‚ publishing‚ retweeting‚ commenting on or sharing defamatory statements against Wierzycka until the case had been heard by the Equality Court. Wierzycka‚ chief executive of Sygnia Asset Management and South Africa’s richest woman‚ sought an order to declare statements Manyi made against her between August 1 and 5 this year on Facebook and Twitter as defamatory. Manyi said in one of his statements that Wierzycka was guilty of economic “terrorism” and was a racist. “She objectifies black people as things than can be bought‚” Manyi said. On Monday night at 8.30pm Manyi’s tweets were still online. Manyi tweeted on Monday night that he is still studying the judgment “which has still NOT pronounced on the issue”.  “I can’t even find the tweets referred to‚ nor do I know which ones are offensive to Magda. My phone can’t go back to August.” Advocate Vuyani Ngalwana SC‚ representing Manyi‚ argued in court that Manyi’s remarks were made in a “robust” political debate and were his right to freedom of expression. Manyi in one of his posts questioned whether Wierzycka was related to Janusz Waluś who murdered SA Communist Party leader Chris Hani‚ due to their common Polish ancestry. Advocate Lwandile Sisilana‚ representing Wierzycka‚ argued that associating Wierzycka with Waluś was inviting the public to view her as someone associated with murderers. Former government spin doctor Mzwanele Manyi told the court on Friday that his constitutional right to a fair hearing will be trampled if his defamation case is heard by the judge he has asked to recuse herself. Manyi wants acting judge Fiona Dippenaar to recuse herself from a case brought… September 8, 2017 In "News" TimesLIVE has sent a legal letter demanding that Gupta ally Mzwanele Manyi provide information on the identities of the shareholders in his company Lodidox. Lodidox this week bought the Guptas' newspaper and television station for R450-million with money loaned to him by the Guptas for the deal. It is law‚… August 24, 2017 In "Business" Mzwanele Manyi’s contention that passing the Financial Intelligence Centre Amendment (Fica) Bill will mean that “ANC will be broke” shows that the party “is funded on ill-gotten gains”‚ the EFF said. EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi also said the “attempt by Manyi to hijack the Fica Bill to try and solve… January 27, 2017 In "Politics"