Entertainment Cape traditional leaders and the government yesterday expressed happiness at the state of readiness for the 2017 summer traditional initiation season which starts this weekend. Cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC Fikile Xasa and Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders’ deputy chairman Nkosi Langa Mavuso presented a roadmap for the summer season. They said they were anticipating “zero” deaths. Xasa, talking during the media launch of the 2017 summer traditional initiation, said: “We are ready for this season, but the primary responsibility is with traditional leaders who must take the lead and ensure safe initiation.” The launch, which took place in East London, was attended by traditional initiation forums from across the province and other stakeholders, including government departments. Thirty-five rented bakkies were on show among resources provided for the rite this summer. They have been rented by the health department for 45 days, media were told, and are to be used by designated medical officers and monitoring teams who will criss-cross the province visiting initiation schools. Buffalo City Metro has hired its own four bakkies. Provincial health department’s district services chief director, Dr Singilizwe Moko, said each monitoring team will have designated medical officers, one of them clinically trained. Xasa and Mavuso said that all boys must be 18 or older to be legally permitted to undergo the rite and had to undergo the mandatory medical examination beforehand. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za Hudson Park High School fast bowling sensation, Akhona Mnyaka, became the youngest selection for the money-spinning T20 Global Destination League when he became the surprise pick of the Bloemfontein City Blazers during the draft pick on Sunday morning. The main player draft saw 16 players picked per squad over 16… August 29, 2017 In "Featured" A Uuniversity of Fort Hare council member allegedly benefited from a R60-million tender to supply printing paper and photocopying to campuses. A draft report by audit firm KPMG, seen by the Saturday Dispatch, alleged that council member and East London businessman Vrij Harry sat in on one of the key… September 5, 2015 In "Metro" The parliamentary committee investigating the SABC board’s fitness to hold office is recommending tough steps against those who allowed unauthorised spending at the public broadcaster. If the findings remain in the final report, they could see former chief operations officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng among those facing action. A draft report detailing… January 19, 2017 In "News"