Suspended Dr WB Rubusana ANC regional secretary Pumlani Mkolo will go on trial next year for his alleged role in the Nelson Mandela funeral fraud scandal. The powerful politician faces the charges alongside his girlfriend, Zintle Nkuhlu, and mother of his child, Nosiphiwo Mati. The state announced yesterday it would try the trio separately from the other seven co-accused, namely former Buffalo City Metro mayor Zukiswa Ncitha, her former deputy Temba Tinta, former council speaker Luleka Simon-Ndzele, councillor Sindiswa Gomba, senior BCM official Ondela Mahlangu, businesswoman Viwe Vazi and businessman Dean Fanoe. The seven will be tried together. East London regional magistrate Sadia Jacobs granted the separation of trial. She said a trial date would be set on January 29 next year provided the state had furnished the defence with copies of the charge sheet and further particulars by December 1. Separations of trial occur mainly when the accused do not all face the same charges although the state alleges a common purpose, and when there exists a great deal of overlap which must be decided by considering the different degrees of alleged criminality. The accused face charges relating to the misuse of millions of rands earmarked for the late president’s memorial services and funeral in December 2013. Nkuhlu is said to have received R350000 from the funds. Mati was reported to have received R100000. Vazi is alleged to have received R899000 and Fanoe R1.38-million. The state wants to separate an East London trial involving several politicians and powerful business people implicated in the Nelson Mandela funeral fraud scandal, it announced yesterday. Proceedings began shortly after 11am as dozens of ANC supporters sang pro-Pumlani Mkolo songs and danced outside the East London Magistrate’s Court. Senior… October 4, 2017 In "News" A fraudster guilty of defrauding the state of millions of rands meant for former president Nelson Mandela’s funeral, provided a car to drive tycoon Tokyo Sexwale to the world icon’s funeral as a special favour. The Saturday Dispatch can reveal that Sexwale was stranded at the East London airport on… February 21, 2015 In "News" The Nelson Mandela memorial fraud trial got off to a late start in the East London regional court today as lawyers for the accused, including BCM mayor Zukiswa Ncitha, waited for amended charge sheets from the prosecutor. A broken recording device also caused the trial to be moved to another… April 7, 2015 In "News"