A Cecilia Makiwane Hospital junior staffer, who was severely assaulted by his supervisor, feels let down by the health department as the man who broke his jaws was only suspended for a month. Wandile Hoza, 54, of King William’s Town, was assaulted by his then supervisor Sicelo Vuso while on duty on May 25, after he had gone to the bank 30 minutes before his lunch break. Hoza opened a criminal case and Vuso was found guilty, but received a five-year suspended sentence and a R12000 fine by the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court on October 12. Now Hoza feels health authorities have let him down, saying Vuso was only suspended for a month and was not remorseful. Hoza, who has worked at the Mdantsane facility for 30 years, said hospital management were dragging their feet in finalising the case. He said the first internal hearing was only in August – more than two months after the assault. “I want him to be suspended then to be fired. “At the internal hearing they just asked me what had happened. I told them the truth and I never heard from them again,” he said. However, Vuso said he had apologised on several occasions but Hoza “refuses to accept” his apology. “I have asked for forgiveness many times. I don’t know what to do anymore. He is being unfair now,” said Vuso. “I am waiting for the outcomes of the internal hearing. I might lose my job. I know what I did was wrong but I was fined and I apologised,” he said. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said: “The employee must raise the issue [of the internal hearing stalling] with the immediate supervisor. If an employee has a problem at work, they have to exhaust internal channels. Going public may jeopardize his/ her case.” Hoza said it took the hospital months to organise a hearing and it only convened for one day. “It’s been months now without any word from them.” Western Cape African National Congress (ANC) secretary Faize Jacobs made a brief appearance at the Cape Town Magistrate Court on Wednesday in connection with allegedly assaulting a former colleague. The matter was postponed for February 22‚ when Jacobs is expected to be asked to plead on assault charges. Jacobs allegedly… November 23, 2016 In "News" A Mdantsane man who lost the ability to have children after he was allegedly assaulted by police officers from Mdantsane last year, says no action has been taken against the perpetrators. Mzameli Velaphi, 31, from NU1 expressed disappointment at the Independent Police Investigative Directorate’s (Ipid’s) investigation into the matter. Velaphi… December 23, 2015 In "News" A Mdantsane man suspected of being part of a brutal gang rape of a 29-year-old woman was killed by an angry mob on Thursday. The 22-year-old man allegedly confessed to the crime before he was stoned to death during a mob justice incident in the township’s NU3. The stoning comes… September 3, 2016 In "Featured"