The UDM in the National Assembly this week tabled a motion about an alleged serial killer in Alice. MP Mncedisi Filtane tabled the motion during a house sitting on Wednesday after three women were recently murdered and another “severely injured” this month alone in separate attacks believed to be the work of a serial killer in the area. Such attacks, including that of a female security guard who was killed while on duty at the social development offices in Alice last weekend, prompted a large number of residents to embark on protest action on Monday demanding swift police action. On Monday, the University of Fort Hare issued an urgent warning to all students at the Alice campus, but especially women, advising them to travel only in groups and be “vigilant” at all times. In his motion, Filtane said it was a concern and traumatising for the Alice community that Nothandekile Ncamiso and Zikhona Makibeni were killed, allegedly by the same assailant, on November 1. Filtane said this happened only days before November 12, when security guard Thokozile Dube “was brutally murdered at work while guarding the offices of the department of social development” in the area. Filtane said a day before Dube’s murder, Zikhona Krama was attacked, possibly by the same person, leaving her “severely injured”. Provincial police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni yesterday confirmed that police were investigating four separate incidents, three of murder and one of attempted murder, committed at Hillcrest, Newrest, Kayamnandi and Pumlani in the Alice cluster. “At this stage the investigation of the cases is consolidated, although we cannot confirm that the incidents are related or committed by the same person,” said Tonjeni. He said they had used a police chopper to follow reports of someone being spotted with bloody clothes and hands, but to no avail. Police were still questioning a man who was handed over to them by residents earlier this week, Tonjeni added. In a circular issued to all UFH students on Monday, university spokesman Kgotso Moabi wrote: “Please be informed that the university has been reliably informed that there is a serial killer roaming around Alice town and nearby communities. “We are informed that he has already claimed three lives and is targeting women only.” Moabi could not be reached yesterday for further comment. — asandan@dispatch.co.za Leader of the United Democratic Movement Bantubonke Holomisa tweeted on Thursday morning that his party would not support the Democratic Alliance's motion to dissolve the National Assembly. The DA announced its intentions to table motion the day after President Jacob Zuma survived an eighth motion of no confidence in him… August 10, 2017 In "Politics" Recent attacks on members of the  Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (Daso)  at the University of Fort Hare appear to be part of a broader plan to sabotage, frustrate and kick the official opposition’s student wing out of the university. The institution’s registrar, Professor Mike Somniso, was this week blamed as the… September 26, 2015 In "News" Extensive work to rebuild damaged and vandalised University of Fort Hare property has started at its Alice and East London campuses after thousands of students took part in two-week-long #FeesMustFall protest action. The university, which boasts a rich history of African leaders having studied there, among them, Nelson Mandela, Oliver… October 31, 2015 In "News"