You’ve done the hard work – now it’s time to claim your matric fame through our new exam results website, brought to you in partnership with Damelin Correspondence College.  LINK: https://www.dcc.edu.za/  If you’ve written matric this year and are eagerly awaiting the release of your results, click on http://matric.sowetanlive.co.za to sign up. There you can create a quick profile using your matric exam number. You can also upload a picture of yourself and tell us about your dreams for the future, along with other details. We’ve even tossed in a R6,000 cash prize to sweeten the deal for one lucky matriculant! When the results are released, we will link your result to your profile so that your achievement is no longer an anonymous number but something special linked to you and your plans. You can share it, boast about it or print it out and keep it for the future. We’ll even throw in some surprises for special achievements like multiple distinctions. You can only register a profile until January 4 2018 – the day before most of the National Senior Certificate results are released. So, what are you waiting for? It’s time to claim your matric fame. You’ve done the hard work – now it’s time to claim your matric fame through our new exam results web app. If you’ve written matric this year and are eagerly awaiting the release of your results, click on http://matric.sowetanlive.co.za. There you can create a quick profile using your matric exam… December 20, 2016 In "Featured" AS HUNDREDS of thousands of matriculants wait with bated breath for their results tomorrow, East London psychologist Sheryl Maastrecht has advised those who fail not to bottle up their feelings.   “Speak to people about how you feel, whether it’s friends or relatives, as long as they are willing to… January 6, 2014 In "News" Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini has demanded that the KwaZulu-Natal education department achieve an 80% pass rate in this year's matric exams - and then to honour his 70th birthday next year‚ a 100% pass rate. Zwelithini was addressing more than 700 principals from the Zululand and Amajuba districts in Ulundi… August 22, 2017 In "News"