Miss South Africa Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters was crowned Miss Universe on Sunday night in a star-studded ceremony in Las Vegas‚ making her only the second South African to ever win the crown. The second runner up was Miss Jamaica and the first runner-up was Miss Colombia. She was a firm-favourite going into the competition and‚ as TshisaLIVE previously reported‚ pundits predicated Demi would take the crown. “There’s the same sense as when Rolene (Strauss) won Miss World. Demi ticks all the boxes and there’s a big buzz around her‚” said an insider at the Miss SA pageant said. In the first question and answer part of the competition‚ Nel-Peters was asked what the biggest issue facing women around the world is? Her answer got cheers from the audience. “Women earn 75% of what men earn doing the same thing. I believe in equal pay for equal work.” In the last question and answer section for the top three‚ contestants were asked ‘what quality in yourself are you most proud of and how will you apply that quality to your time as Miss Universe?’ Again‚ Nel-Peters owned the answer. “As Miss Universe you have to be confident in who you are. Miss Universe has to overcome her fears and teach others to do the same. And nothing is ever to0 much to ask for. That is exactly who I am.” Margaret Gardiner last took the crown in 1978 and SA did not compete in the pageant between 1985 and 1994. Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters was crowned Miss South Africa 2017 at a glitzy ceremony at Sun City on Sunday night. The 21-year-old from Sedgefield in the Western Cape was a firm favourite from the start of the show and impressed the judges during the various stages of the competition. Adè van Heerden… March 27, 2017 In "Featured" Newly crowned Miss SA Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has revealed that she is ‘hurt’ by the allegations that she ‘received preferential treatment’ during the pageant and she is adamant that she earned her crown. Sowetan reported that there was speculation the pageant had been “rigeed” because of favouritism‚ Demi-Leigh has said she… April 13, 2017 In "Entertainment" Miss SA Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters is shaken but safe after surviving an attempted hijacking in Johannesburg on Wednesday evening. The Miss SA pageant confirmed that the beauty queen was held up by three armed men on Jan Smuts Avenue in Hyde Park‚ Johannesburg. “She managed to exit the vehicle and a… June 8, 2017 In "News"