Sonwabile Nombebe started Nozulu and Ngonyama Trading Enterprise in 2005, working from a humble room that doubled as his bedroom, office and toolshed. Today the building and electrical construction company is a booming success, handling multimillion-rand projects in much larger premises in Mvunge A/A just outside Mthatha. Nombebe said he had sold his business idea to a friend who was already working as a technician with Telkom and provided him with some financial support. “I had the passion but no money and this business requires money before you even make any profit as you have to pay for tender documents, site visits and suppliers,” said Nombebe. Their first project was carpeting a company’s offices and that earned Nozulu and Ngonyama Trading Enterprise R7000. Nombebe recalled how they went for months after that before getting any more work. “The other director left and I also had to find other employment just to make ends meet,” said Nombebe. Other projects that would follow in 2006, included paving and stormwater management for Zimele High School and providing sanitation services for another school in Buntingville just outside Mthatha. He said 2007 was the deciding year for Nozulu and Ngonyama Trading Enterprise because it had the most challenges. No work resulted in the resignation of another partner. “There was no work and I had rent to pay and needed food and petrol. But I never thought of giving up and someone told me that the fact that it is not easy, means I am on the right track and that kept me going,” Nombebe said. The company received a major breakthrough in 2008 when they were awarded a contract with the Post Office. “We were doing building and shop fittings for four of their branches in small towns like Engcobo and Ngqeleni and that kept us busy until mid-2009. “This year we are celebrating 12 years and we want to give thanks to God and everyone who has been supportive to us, especially my wife, Namhla Nombebe, who is the accounts manager, for standing beside me. I’d also like to thank Tendai Chiro and Thabo Hlanjwa who have been my mentors. “We also want to thank all our staff for their hard work and dedication. We wouldn’t have been able to achieve success without their support. “Most construction companies do not last longer than five years, but we are still here,” said Nombebe. Nozulu and Ngonyama Trading Enterprise has a complement of 20 permanently employed staff and four interns, as well as a number of contract staff. Currently the company is handling the electrification of three schools spread out across Transkei. Nombebe said he owed the success of his company to passion and resolve. He said it was not always easy to get work, especially “if you insist on doing things by the book and as a Christian I refuse to bribe or ask favours”. “Many companies fail because people do not invest back into the business. I bought my first luxury 11 years into toiling away and seeing the business grow. “So my advice to other people in this industry is that patience is the key and never be afraid to get out of your suit and into overalls, because that will show your employees that you know what you are doing and they cannot take you for a ride,” he said. Nombebe intends to continue to grow the business and is working towards one day handling big projects, such as the construction of stadiums, hospitals and even malls. Nozulu and Ngonyama Trading Enterprise contact details Address: Tutor Ndamase Avenue Road Mvunge A/A Zimbane Location Mthatha, 5099 Postal Address: PO Box 58167,
Mthatha Tel: 047 532 7893/ 047 531 6016 Fax: 086 623 5353 Cellphone: 081 8282 771 E-mail: nozulu@telkomsa.net or
nozulu175@gmail.com Hundreds of AbaThembu are expected to march on the Union Buildings in Pretoria today to call on President Jacob Zuma to immediately release King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo. Organisers of the march were yesterday optimistic it would be a success, saying people from about 10 towns in areas ruled by AbaThembu royal… February 23, 2016 In "News" A mixture of chronic ulcers, depression and loss of appetite landed AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo in hospital, the royal family said on Tuesday. Spokesperson Prince Mthunzi Ngonyama said the king was still receiving treatment at the St Dominic’s Hospital in East London. In a statement on Tuesday, Ngonyama said Dalindyebo… January 13, 2016 In "News" Incarcerated Thembu king Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo has rejected the appointment of his son Prince Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo by the premier to act as king in his place. The king does not support either his brother Prince Jongisizwe Mankunku or Azenathi to act as kings, but rather he supports his wife, Nokwanda,… February 23, 2017 In "News"