Police have confirmed Idols SA runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba has been accused of allegedly assaulting a young woman in a Johannesburg flat on Saturday morning. Pictures of the alleged abuse were shared on social media on Saturday‚ with an image of the alleged victim’s bloody lip and what appeared to be a chipped tooth going viral. The woman spoke to Sunday Times detailing what allegedly took place. On social media she claimed the attack was “brutal“. Police confirmed to TshisaLIVE that a case of assault had been opened against the musician at the Hillbrow Police Station on Saturday. “No arrests have been made yet and the matter is currently being investigated‚” Sergeant Mduduzi Zondo said. Ndaba’s management referred all enquiries to Mzansi Magic. Speaking to TshisaLIVE‚ head of PR at M-Net Nondumiso Mabece said the channel had not been in contact with the Idols star. “Mzansi Magic and Idols SA are aware of social media posts of an alleged incident that took place on November 24. We have‚ however‚ been unable to make contact with Mthokozisi Ndaba. Mzansi Magic and Idols SA condemn any act of abuse.” Ndaba lost out on the Idols SA crown to Paxton Fielies last week and missed a post-show press conference. Mzansi Magic confirmed to TshisaLIVE at the time that he was receiving “assistance” after the finale to deal with the loss. “Mthokozisi has requested to be given time to come to terms with the result of the Idols show. He will indicate when he is ready to speak to the media‚” said M-Net’s Nondumiso Mabece. Idols SA runner-up Mthokozisi Ndaba has broken his silence after refusing to do media interviews and receiving "assistance" after the season 13 finale of the music reality show on Sunday night. Mthokozisi took to his Instagram account to post a video of himself watching the music video for his song‚… November 23, 2017 In "Entertainment" Musician Kelly Khumalo is not fazed by "attention seekers" who tried to hijack her appearance on Idols SA by inundating her with requests to talk about the death of her late boyfriend‚ Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa. Kelly appeared as a guest judge on the popular Mzansi Magic music reality… July 31, 2017 In "Entertainment" It has emerged that even before the footage that caused an outrage on social media‚ the “Spur bully” was no stranger to claims of public altercations and violence. The white male seen in the footage exchanging angry words with a woman at a Spur eatery at The Glen shopping centre… July 3, 2017 In "News"