President Jacob Zuma is expected to launch the 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children campaign in Port Elizabeth tomorrow. The Presidency said this year marked the 19th anniversary of the campaign which runs from November 25 to December 10. “The 16 Days of Activism Campaign focuses on raising awareness of the negative impact of violence on women and children, as well as on society as a whole. It is also focused on seeking prevention interventions to the ongoing violence perpetrated on women and children,” Presidency spokesman Dr Bongani Ngqulunga said. In support of the campaign, Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has encouraged South Africans, specifically women and children, to make use of her department’s Gender Based Violence Command Centre (GBVCC). Dlamini said the command centre was established to deal with the scourge of violence. It is a 24-hour call centre that is available to assist survivors of gender-based violence for support and guidance by trained social workers. The services at the centre are linked to the police, the Emergency Management Services and the Department of Health. “The GBVCC uses mobile technology to estimate the location of a caller, assign the closest social worker in the field to the case, and record and receive continuous feedback on the case. It employs trained social workers who provide immediate counselling to callers and help them to avoid or minimise further exposure to violence,” Dlamini said. The centre broadens the base of service delivery to the remotest and most underdeveloped regions of the country. Since its inception, the Command Centre has received four awards in recognition of the excellence of the service it delivers. The launch, themed “Count me in: Together moving a non violent SA forward”, will be at the Nelson Mandela University’s Missionvale Campus in Port Elizabeth at 10am President Jacob Zuma told South Africans that government had made remarkable progress in the fight against the abuse and killings of elderly women and young girls. Zuma officially launched the 16 Days of No Violence Against Women and Children campaign in front of thousands of people who gathered in Mafikeng,… November 26, 2015 In "News" 16 Days of Activism launch in Lusikisiki hotspot. A CAMPAIGN to fight the scourge of violence against women and children was launched in Lusikisiki yesterday after President Jacob Zuma declared the area a hotspot for such crimes. The Minister for Women, Children and People with Disabilities, Lulu Xingwana, said the… November 26, 2013 In "News" President Jacob Zuma has failed to show up at the launch the national 16 Days of Activism for No Violence against Women and Children near Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape‚ where he was scheduled to be a keynote speaker. In a statement by the Government Communication Information System (GCIS)‚… November 25, 2017 In "News"