Intervention to transform the petroleum retail sector is on the cards‚ energy minister David Mahlobo has indicated. He says the Department of Energy is conducting an audit that will serve as a baseline to inform the intervention required to transform the sector. “The department will use the Petroleum Products Act and the Liquid Fuels Charter more stringently to ensure that transformation is effected‚” Mahlobo said in a written reply to a parliamentary question by National Freedom Party MP professor Nhlanhlakayise Khubisa. The department is also aligning the charter to the broad-based black economic empowerment policy framework. It anticipates that a draft petroleum and liquid fuels code (including the petroleum retail subsector) along with its score card will be gazetted for public comment by the end of the year. “We also need to indicate that the department continues to have bilateral engagements with oil companies to fast-track transformation of company-owned (retail) sites‚” Mahlobo said. In terms of the Liquid Fuels Charter‚ historically disadvantaged South Africans must own or control 25% of entities in the industry that hold operating assets. “We must acknowledge with concern that the implementation of the Liquid Fuel Charter’s entire scope of application as agreed upon in 2000 did not achieve substantial increased black participation at all levels of the population across the value chain. “Whilst acknowledging the achievement of black ownership at 25% with unencumbered ownership for Total SA; Sasol and Shell downstream across the value chain‚ petroleum retail and site ownership remain substantially unchanged and below the 25% target‚” Mahlobo said. It was “clearly unacceptable”‚ he added‚ that the representation of women was below 400 out of approximately 4600 service stations – less than 10%. “One of the critical challenges is the access for new entrants to commercially viable fuel sites which have perpetually remained in the same hands over a period of time. The same is true for refineries that still remain under the majority ownership of international oil companies.” The minister said site and retail franchise agreements that expired were prioritised for black South Africans‚ with preference being given to women‚ youth and people with disabilities. “We further believe that the immediate focus should be the facilitation of BEE companies by the department to enable them to import sizeable quantities of West African crude oil‚ which accounts for 50% of crude oil imports into the country.” – BusinessLIVE Source: TMG Digital. Energy Minister David Mahlobo is reportedly fast-tracking the government’s controversial nuclear deal‚ which is expected to cost in the region of R1-trillion. City Press reported on Sunday that officials at his department are working weekends to finalise the country’s reviewed integrated energy resource plan – four months ahead of schedule.… November 5, 2017 In "Featured" Newly appointed State Security Minister‚ advocate Bongani Thomas Bongo‚ is an ANC MP from Mpumalanga‚ just like his predecessor‚ David Mahlobo. Bongo is the only new appointment to the Cabinet and is relatively unknown. He was appointed during Tuesday morning’s Cabinet reshuffle and has taken up a role in which… October 17, 2017 In "Politics" The leader of the Economic Freedom Fighters‚ Julius Malema‚ says the cabinet reshuffle announced by President Jacob Zuma on Tuesday is a tactical move to see the nuclear deal concluded. “He is chasing the nuclear deal in the energy [department]….She [then minister of energy Tina Joemat-Pettersson] wanted minister Nene to… October 17, 2017 In "Politics"