A taxi owner and his driver were shot dead near the East London CBD on Friday evening. Police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala said three armed men had been involved in the slaying. She said the two had been ambushed as they were seated in a Toyota Avanza counting money for the day in Albany Street. “It is alleged that the woman driver, Penny Gcilitshana, 38, came to give cash to her boss Mxolisi Sontsantsha, 61, as he is the owner of the Avanza. “They were inside the vehicle when three males came from nowhere and start shooting at them. Both were shot in their upper bodies and were declared dead on the scene,” Mqala said, adding police were investigating a case of double murder. Mqala said the incident was suspected to be taxi violence related, but she could not say if it was related to that of last Sunday where a 34-year-old taxi operated was found shot dead in the face, also in the CBD. lA young man was stoned to death in Duncan Village on Saturday morning. Mqala said the man, 25, was assaulted after being caught allegedly trying to mug someone. The unnamed alleged victim was assisted by residents who then used stones and sticks to assault the deceased. A case of murder was opened. lEast London police are searching for eight men who allegedly robbed the Prestons liquor store in Greenfields at gunpoint on Friday night. Mqala said the robbers, clad in balaclavas, entered the store in Jan Smuts Avenue shortly after 7pm and held employees at gunpoint. They took an undisclosed amount of money and also helped themselves to bottles of alcohol before fleeing. Mqala said no shots had been fired. Police are investigating a case of business robbery. lBeacon Bay police arrested a 27-year-old suspected of drunk driving after his vehicle crashed into a property wall in Bonza Bay road over the weekend. She said the driver would appear in the East London Magistrate’s Court today. lThree people were killed on Saturday evening when the bakkie they were travelling in veered off a bridge and plunged into a river on the R102 between Ndevana and Phakamisa. Provincial traffic spokesman Charles Bramwell said alcohol may have been involved. A case of culpable homicide was opened. — zwangam@dispatch.co.za Another Eastern Cape taxi operator has been gunned down in cold blood outside his own home. Xolile Baliso, 44, was shot and left for dead as he arrived at his Mdantsane home from an out-of-town trip. Baliso is the first operator to be killed in 2017 in a raging taxi war… January 6, 2017 In "Featured" Two ambush-style shootings yesterday that caused the death of an Mthatha taxi owner and serious injury to an East London area driver sent shivers through the Eastern Cape taxi industry. A five-month-old toddler missed being shot, while the child’s father, Zukisani Rhilityana, 42, died and his mother, Ntsaphokazi Ndimangele, injured when… January 11, 2017 In "Featured" East London police are investigating a case of murder after a taxi operator was found dead in his taxi in the East London CBD. The 34-year-old victim was apparently transporting people from the beachfront to Tsholomnqa when the incident allegedly happened. Confirming the incident to DispatchLIVE, police spokeswoman Warrant Officer… November 20, 2017 In "Featured"