Musa Nyatama scored against his old club with his first goal for Orlando Pirates as the Buccaneers beat Bloemfontein Celtic 1-0 on Sunday and climbed to second place on the Premier Soccer League standings. They are now a point behind leaders Baroka FC but incredibly have won only four of their 12 league games this season. Nyatama’s strike was only the ninth goal of the season for Pirates‚ which speaks to the poverty of football that the PSL is experiencing at the moment. Pirates had not won in their previous six league games but have broken that drought to deny Telkom Knockout finalists Bloemfontein Celtic a convincing warm up for their upcoming cup final against Bidvest Wits in Durban. Sunday’s game was largely a snore fest‚ punctuated by weak crosses‚ loss of possession and poor decision making. The heat meant the game was never going to be able to demand a decent tempo and so most of the passing and movement was at pedestrian pace. Pirates had Thamsanqa Sangweni back in midfield but their problems remain upfront where the final touch is increasingly hurried and/or ill thought. Again‚ Thabo Qalinge was guilty of over elaboration while Mpho Makola did not take shots when he could. Celtic‚ for their part‚ circulated the ball into an almost comatose state but when they went forward easily lost possession. Midfielder Lantshene Phalane tried to liven up matters with a long range shot in the 13th minute when he spotted Jackson Mabokgwane off his line but was off target. Pirates’ only real chance of the first half came when Luvuyo Memela’s free kick forced Patrick Tignyemb to make a characteristically flamboyant save. Celtic went narrowly close through Ndumiso Mabena shortly after the break but Nyatama’s goal was the only significant event of the second half. Nyatama’s persistence was a big part of the goal with Gabuza assisting and Kabelo Mahlasela failing to clear and Nyatama picking up the loose ball to toe-poke it home in the 63rd minute. Orlando Pirates’ desperation to finish in the Absa Premiership top eight in their 80th anniversary season comes to a head in their second-last match against Ajax Cape Town at Orlando Stadium on Wednesday night. Pirates‚ in 10th place‚ need to reverse a string of draws under new coach Kjell Jonevret… May 16, 2017 In "Sport" The Absa Premiership race is right back on again after Bidvest Wits flexed their impressive player muscle to outplay Orlando Pirates 1-0 at Bidvest Stadium and close the gap on Mamelodi Sundowns to four points. With Downs suffering the shock result of the season, losing 3-1 against struggling Bloemfontein Celtic… March 17, 2016 In "Sport" Players to wear black armbands EMOTIONS will run high in tonight’s Telkom Knockout final at Mbombela Stadium between Platinum Stars and Orlando Pirates, which has been dwarfed in stature by the death of former president Nelson Mandela. ALLAN FREESE Stars coach Allan Freese said the emotion over Mandela’s passing late… December 7, 2013 In "Sport"