Almost two out of every three South Africans (65%) who are 16 years or older are now connected to the internet while four out of every 10 South Africans access the internet daily (42%). This is slightly ahead of Nigeria (63%) and Kenya (53%).  This is according to new research released on Monday whoich was commissioned by internet giant Google and conducted by Kantar TNS. The 2017 Consumer Barometer (https://www.consumerbarometer.com/en/) consists of research conducted in 63 countries to gauge their internet access and usage. South African data was collected via door-to-door interviews of which 60% were done in urban and 40% in rural areas. About 25 million South Africans access the internet for personal use of which six out of 10 are below 35 years old. This is higher than the global average of 34%. Most users go online to access social media‚ use search engines and watch online videos. South African internet users are split in the middle between men and women. The research found six out of every 10 South Africans used smartphones compared to 47% in 2014. Just under one out of four (24%) South Africans used computers. Tablet usage was just more than one out of 10 (12%). Just more than four out of 10 South Africans use only a smartphone‚ computer or tablet while 16% used two of these devices and 7% used all three. Almost four out of five South Africans (79%) access the internet on their smartphone as often as on their computer. About 2.5 million South Africans shop online which Google said is “only set to continue to grow”. “In the future we can expect more connected devices‚ continued adoption of new technologies and the digital assistant becoming part of everyday life‚” Google said. Facebook is now used by a quarter of all South Africans‚ while Instagram has seen the fastest growth of any social network in South Africa over the past year. These are two of the key findings from the South African Social Media Landscape 2016 study‚ released on Wednesday by World… September 16, 2015 In "News" If you’re a young South African reading this story online at home‚ you’re one of the lucky few who have that luxury. A whopping 63% of youths in South Africa do not have internet access at home‚ according to the University of Cape Town’s newly launched Youth Explorer portal. This… June 22, 2017 In "News" Many couples have dispensed with the heart-shaped balloons, chocolates and flowers that were once synonymous with Valentine’s Day and are keeping their love affair alive in a different way. Sex toys and lingerie, though by no means new to the South African market, are now making it to the top of… February 14, 2017 In "Daily Life"