MultiChoice is under pressure to “come clean” about its contracts with Gupta-owned television news channel ANN7.  Ongoing revelations contained in the Gupta leaks have revealed allegedly questionable payments by MultiChoice to ANN7 and the involvement of former communications minister Faith Muthambi. “Hiding behind confidentiality clauses and telling half-truths is no longer an option in today’s world of citizen power‚ when the public can exercise its purchase strength to trigger the demise of organisations that profit from unacceptable and undue conduct‚” said Wayne Duvenage‚ CEO of the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (Outa) on Monday. He called on MultiChoice to come clean and provide all the facts related to its transactions with ANN7. Outa said in a statement‚ “It would appear that not only did the Guptas get what they wanted in the launch of their own news channel ANN7‚ which was rewarded with lucrative annual payments from MultiChoice to the tune of R140m‚ but MultiChoice appears to have also benefitted through transactions involving the Minister of Communications’ cancellation of the roll-out of a competitive encryption service for all TV platforms.” MultiChoice has denied allegations of a corrupt relationship with Muthambi and said that the fee structure for its ANN7 contract was “in line with the costs of developing and running such a channel‚ and ANN7 is definitely not the highest-paid local news channel on the DStv platform.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) called on MultiChoice to “publicly release the full contracts” it entered into with ANN7. MP Phumzile van Damme said in a statement on Sunday that should MultiChoice “fail to do so within 48 hours‚ the DA will request that the Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) force it to do so”. – TimesLIVE The Democratic Alliance and civic groups on Tuesday celebrated a victory against UK public relations firm Bell Pottinger‚ which has been kicked out of an industry body for five years. The Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA) announced the decision at 1am on Tuesday‚ delivering its harshest possible sanction. The… September 5, 2017 In "Politics" Staff at the Gupta-owned ANN7 and The New Age have been told that their jobs are safe following the announcement that Oakbay are pulling out of their media interests. Management‚ which included family spokesman Gary Naidoo‚ New Age editor Ricky Naidoo and TNA/ANN7 editor-in-chief Moegsien Williams‚ addressed staff at a… August 21, 2017 In "Business" The ANC and Guptas have agreed that an urgent meeting is needed following allegations that the politically connected family was influencing Cabinet appointments.  "We are still waiting for confirmation, but... both sides have agreed that we need to meet urgently, perhaps before the end of the week," ANC national spokesperson… March 22, 2016 In "News"