Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe had not expected the army to take to the streets‚ but that it would engage him if there were problems. This is according to South African Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula‚ who visited Zimbabwe last week following reports that the army had taken over. “We did not visit Zimbabwe to engage the president because we are from South Africa‚ but because our president is the chair of SADC (the Southern African Development Community). We went there on behalf of SADC … the intention was to scan the environment because at the time there had been reports of a military coup de’tat‚” Mapisa-Nqakula said on Radio 702 on Tuesday. “President Mugabe said‚ ‘I’ve done everything for the army. I’ve given them land and therefore I do not expect that when there are problems that they would take to the streets but rather that they’d come to me and engage me.’” Mapisa-Nqakula said Mugabe had told the delegation that he was fine. “He said he realises that there might be a problem because the manner in which the army conducted itself‚ pointed to a fact that there is a problem.” She said Constantino Chiwenga‚ the army general‚ had informed the delegation that they had no intention of overthrowing the government but were concerned about how it is being run and how some elements of the ruling Zanu-PF are influencing government operations. “He said all they seek to do is to remove the inner circle that has a negative influence on President Mugabe.” Mapisa-Nqakula said the situation in Zimbabwe was confusing and that it does not look like Mugabe is in charge anymore. -TimesLIVE   The South African envoys in Zimbabwe will meet with President Robert Mugabe and the Zimbabwean defence force before reporting back to SADC. Addressing the post-cabinet meeting briefing‚ Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane said the South African team had arrived in Zimbabwe‚ where they would meet with Mugabe and the Zimbabwean defence… November 16, 2017 In "News" The South African envoys in Zimbabwe will meet with President Robert Mugabe and the Zimbabwean defence force before reporting back to SADC. Addressing the post-cabinet meeting briefing‚ Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane said the South African team had arrived in Zimbabwe‚ where they would meet with Mugabe and the Zimbabwean defence… November 16, 2017 In "News" Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula on Wednesday confirmed that the Department of Defence would acquire a new presidential jet‚ but denied that there was a preferred option or that an amount of R4 billion had been mentioned. Addressing the media ahead of her budget vote debate in the National Assembly‚ Mapisa-Nqakula… May 11, 2016 In "News"