ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe says a faction of the ANC that resorted to court to nullify  the outcome of the ANC provincial elective conference had agreed to instead submit themselves to the party’s internal processes and their case before court should not be allowed to go ahead. The ANC has applied to the Grahamstown High Court to allow Mantashe’s. last-minute affidavit admitted into evidence. The ANC and its recently-elected chair Oscar Mabuyane are opposing the application brought by 11 ANC members disenchanted by the outcome of the ANC PEC which was marred by violence on election day. Most of premier Phumulo Masualle’s supporters reportedly left the conference and Mabuyane was elected with a massive majority as a result. The matter was supposed to be argued in the Grahamstown High Court today but was adjourned till Monday to allow lawyers for the applicants – which include ANC OR Tambo region members – Nomawethu Mgabadeli, Bulelwa Madikida, Baxolile Kulu, Kayo Marhini and Ntselwa Nompilo –  to file papers opposing any attempt to have Mantashe’s affidavit admitted into evidence. In the affidavit, Mantashe says the applicants had sent the ANC a letter earlier this month confirming they had made a “conscious decision to withdraw the court application” and allow the ANC internal processes to take place. Judges Dawid van Zyl, Thami Beshe and Glenn Goosen presided. Advocate Phillip Zilwa, SC, and Advocate Amelis da Silva appeared for the applicants. Advocates Tembeka Ngcukaitobi and Advocate Apla Bodlani appeared for the ANC and Mabuyane. The gap within which the application can be heard is closing fast as the ANC’s national elective conference is due to kick off on December 16.   A startling affidavit by ANC secretary-general Gwe- de Mantashe, in which he says ANC internal processes should trump court action, yesterday stalled a high court application to nullify the outcome of the ANC’s provincial electoral conference. Mantashe says in the affidavit that the faction of the ANC supporting Eastern Cape… November 22, 2017 In "Politics" The ANC has yet to decide whether it will appeal a high court ruling that has declared the election of the KwaZulu-Natal provincial leadership unlawful.  This was revealed by ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe who was briefing journalists after a special national executive committee (NEC) meeting at St Georges Hotel… September 23, 2017 In "News" Alfred Nzo has become the first Eastern Cape ANC region to publicly endorse Cyril Ramaphosa as the governing party’s presidential candidate for the December elective conference. The region also wants Gwede Mantashe and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize to remain in the party’s top six officials. Mantashe has already declared that he… July 14, 2017 In "Featured"