Condolences kept pouring in for the late former roads and public works MEC Gloria Barry who passed away this morning from a long struggle with cancer. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayithobi said the party was saddened in the province by Barry’s passing. “While we are saddened by her death, we send our heartfelt condolences to her family, friends and the ANC structures where she served selflessly. The news of comrade Barry’s death has rattled all of us in the ANC,” he said. Ngcukayithobi said Barry was one of the founding members of the National Union of Metal Workers of SA. Following the unbanning of the ANC in 1990, he said, Barry was one of the few women who formed part of the Eastern Cape provincial Interim Leadership Structure of the ANC. “We wish to convey our condolences to the Barry family and the Muslim community at large. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family at this difficult time. We deep our revolutionary banner in honour of this great giant of the liberation struggle,” Ngcukayithobi said. Barry will be buried today at the Gavin Park mosque in Port Elizabeth.   Former Eastern Cape Transport MEC Gloria Barry died this morning. ANC Nelson Mandela Metro secretary Themba Xathula confirmed the news, saying the seasoned ANC activist had been hospitalised and in a comma. "We understand that she died this morning and will be buried at 4pm today." Barry's funeral service will… November 24, 2017 In "News" Tributes poured in yesterday for the late mother of Eastern Premier and SACP leader Phumulo Masualle, Mama Caroline Deneo Masualle, who died at the age of 89 after a long illness. Masualle had been hospitalised at Frere Hospital after she suffered a stroke. Provincial government spokesman Sonwabo Mbananga said Masualle… July 17, 2017 In "Featured" A top Eastern Cape provincial official was shot dead in his East London home yesterday morning. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79odYNlQdLE Police have confirmed they are investigating a case of murder after the provincial department of social development chief of staff Sakhekile Ndudula was found dead. Ndudula sustained eight gunshots to his upper body while… September 15, 2016 In "Featured"