A man accused of making two death threats and claiming that there would be a hit on the CEO of the Eastern Cape Development Corporation, Ndzondelelo Dlulane, told the East London Magistrate’s Court he made a living by selling drugs. Sithembele April, 40, of NU2, Mdantsane, was motivating to the court why he should be released on bail on Thursday. Surprise was etched on the faces of his lawyer Vuyiseka Kani, state prosecutor Queode Botha and magistrate Siyabulela Pango when April took to the stand in shackles and told the court he sold Mandrax tablets for a living. Kani was quick to cut him off, saying the court would not entertain the selling of drugs as a way to make a living. She said he needed to state another way he was making an honest living. “I play dice in Highway,” he said. He was arrested by members of the Hawks last week when he allegedly called Dlulane at his workplace and informed him of an impending hit. He has been charged with two counts of intimidation and attempting to escape from lawful custody. He testified in leg irons as the state feared he might escape. “I am not guilty of the charges I am facing because I thought I was helping someone. I spent time in prison and the people I served time with, I heard them talking about wanting to kill him [Dlulane], so I called his office to warn him about the plot. I thought I was helping,” April said. The father of two pleaded to be released on R500 bail, saying his life in prison was in danger as he was locked up with members of the 26 Gang he had helped imprison by testifying against them. Botha earlier told the court that soon after his first court appearance on Monday April attempted to escape while in the presence of eight heavily armed police officers. April replied: “They were beating me.” The bail application was postponed to December 1. — zwangam@dispatch.co.za A 40-year-old Mdantsane man, who allegedly made death threats and allegations regarding a hit on a senior government official and a politician, will have to wait until Thursday before he can make a formal bail application. Sithembele April today made his first court appearance after he was arrested on Friday… November 20, 2017 In "News" New public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has been urged to release the report into a 2014 Mandela memorial funds controversy. The inquiry was conducted by former public protector Thuli Madonsela into an estimated R35-million allegedly funneled through the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC). ECDC board chairman Nhlanganiso Dladla, with most of… November 16, 2016 In "Featured" The Grahamstown High Court has placed the collapsed Magwa Tea project under the supervision of an interim business rescue practitioner. This was done at the behest of creditor Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC). According to court papers, it will cost taxpayers another R51-million to rehabilitate the tea estate outside Lusikisiki… February 17, 2016 In "News"