East London IDZ-based Sundale Free Range Dairy has achieved an internationally recognised food safety management certification. Public relations consultant for the dairy Lynette Howe was excited about the news for the Eastern Cape region. “Sundale is one of only a handful of dairies in South Africa to have achieved this world-class standard,” she said. Sundale chief executive Pierre van Rensburg said the FSSC 22000 certification meant that the dairy met the requirements of several global retailers and major branded food companies under an internationally recognised food management system. “It also provides our consumers with peace of mind in a market that is increasingly concerned about food safety.” Howe said the certification, which is recognised by the Global Food Safety Initiative, was developed to guarantee food safety systems for organisations in the food chain that process or manufacture animal products, additives, bio-cultures and food packaging material. “It integrates into other quality management systems such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 and is an integral part of any food manufacturing organisation’s ability to improve quality and ensure safety,” she said. “The certification is testament to the standards at Sundale. “The application process is particularly thorough and every aspect of the business needs to meet the strict quality specifications in order to achieve the coveted stamp of approval. “Since Pierre van Rensburg and his wife Sharna took over the reins at Sundale Free Range Dairy, they have forged ahead to achieve their shared vision to provide a quality dairy to local markets and to endeavour to move towards greener business practices. “Sundale is one of few dairies to recycle all their water and they have received recognition for being the greenest dairy in the province.” Van Rensburg added: “We continually strive to improve efficiencies and reduce our impact on the environment whilst we maintain stringent quality standards.” Sundale food technologist Japie Steyl said: “Achieving recognition from a global initiative is significant to us and reinforces our claims of commitment to quality. “Food safety, particularly in the dairy sector, is critical. Unpasteurised or raw milk can carry the TB virus and in South Africa, where maas is a staple food, it is absolutely crucial that we take every precaution to protect consumers of dairy products from possible contamination.” Sundale, which produces milk, yoghurts, maas, cheese, cream, dairy blends and butter, already has export certification and has expanded into national markets through supplier chains like Checkers and Woolworths. A leading Eastern Cape dairy is spending R10-million on getting into the traditional maize drinks market. Sundale Free Range Dairy, based in the East London Industrial Development Zone (ELIDZ), is diversifying further by buying out the Mageu line from food and beverage company, the East London Vinegar Factory (Elvin). Sundale will… March 17, 2017 In "Business" Local pasture-fed cows produce such good milk that it will soon be processed into cheddar and gouda at a R4-million cheese factory nearing completion at Sundale Dairy. The plant will have a capacity to turn 700000 litres of milk into seven tons of cheese each month. Production at its state-of-the… November 10, 2015 In "Metro" Amid warnings about rising costs of petrol and red meat, price checks show that a basket of basic goods has risen about 50% in the past year. The prices in the basket compiled by the Saturday Dispatch and priced at one popular supermarket in East London show that between April… April 30, 2016 In "News"