AN incredible performance from Border middle-order batsman Marco Marais saw him hammer his way into the record books as he smashed an unbeaten 300 runs to help Border declare on 512/4 on day one of their Sunfoil 3-Day Cup clash against Eastern Province at Buffalo Park on Thursday. Marais shared in a record unbroken 428-run fifth wicket stand with Bradley Williams as they rescued Border from a perilous position on 84/4 before lunch. Williams came in to bat in the 20th over and was on two runs when Marais arrived at the crease in the next over, with the two safely getting Border to lunch on 132/4. After the break Marais went on the charge, passing 100 and then cruising past his previous highest first class score of 128 runs. By tea Marais had reached 182 and passed the double century mark soon after, while Williams played the perfect anchor role at the other end scoring when he could. Marais continued on his way, passing 250 before Williams brought up his maiden first class century. A single was then all it took for Marais to reach the incredible milestone, with Border declaring their innings immediately after with Williams unbeaten on 113. Marais’ 300 came off 191 balls and featured 35 fours and 13 sixes. Eastern Province then reached 19/0 in their reply when bad light called a slightly early end to play. “I have never seen anything like that before, it was my first experience seeing a triple century, it was unbelievable, what an innings,” said Border coach Frank Plaatjes. “I have always said Marco is a special player, I knew something was on the cards because he has been playing so well, but we didn’t expect 300 to be honest. “I think Bradley took so much pressure off Marco, the way he supported him and feeding him the strike was amazing and I think it’s a well deserved century for Bradley as well.” The second day of play will start at 9:30am on Friday morning.   There aren’t enough superlatives to describe the irresistible form of Border star Marco Marais, who produced one of the greatest innings ever seen at Buffalo Park on Thursday as he powered to a brilliant unbeaten 300 against Eastern Province on Thursday afternoon. It was an amazing innings that featured 35… November 25, 2017 In "News" Border star Marco Marais officially shattered a 97-year world record on Thursday afternoon when he became the fastest batsman to score a triple century in the history of first-class cricket. Marais, 24, who reached an unbeaten 300 off just 191 balls, bested the previous triple century record by 30 deliveries.… November 27, 2017 In "Sport" Wickets tumbled on a difficult batting wicket on day two of the Sunfoil 3-day clash between Border and Eastern Province at Buffalo Park yesterday, leaving the match perched on a knife-edge heading into the final day’s play today. A total of 21 wickets fell as Border’s batting woes continued in… November 14, 2015 In "Sport"