President Jacob Zuma says his cabinet reshuffles are his own prerogative and anyone wanting to know the process should win elections themselves. Zuma was answering questions in the National Council of Provinces.
He was asked by DA member Johan Londt about his decision to remove Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. He responded that Section 91 of the Constitution allowed him to appoint and remove members of cabinet and he did so “after careful consideration”. He said the decision was the subject of “careful consideration”. In a supplementary question‚ Londt asked whether‚ in his next cabinet reshuffle‚ he had appointed Mahlobo as energy minister to “rush through the nuclear deal”. Zuma responded that “the changing of a minister is the prerogative of the president and the reasons are not necessarily to be known by people. If you want to know‚ win elections and have a government.” Asked whether he intended to release the record of his decision‚ Zuma sounded puzzled and asked “what record do I have that I have not released? The decision I took is the record.” The IFP’s Mntomuhle Khawula said the decision to fire Blade Nzimande as higher education despite his achievements “defies logic” but Zuma said “there is no decision the president has taken that has defied logic. Not a single one.” – TimesLIVE President Jacob Zuma says he is not going to pay legal fees associated with the DA’s corruption charges against him from his own pocket. Zuma was asked during a question session in Parliament whether he would pay the legal fees for the DA’s corruption charges case against him himself. He… November 16, 2017 In "News" Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says President Jacob Zuma is working to ensure that a commission of inquiry into state capture happens “soon“. During a National Assembly question session on Wednesday Ramaphosa said: “I know for a fact‚ he has been busy at it and working out precisely how this commission… October 19, 2017 In "News" President Jacob Zuma appeared to be skirting the issue in his responses to written questions in Parliament on Tuesday with regards to the removal of Nhlanhla Nene from the minister of finance post on December 9 last year. He was asked by the Democratic Alliance’s David Maynier whether he had… April 12, 2016 In "News"