Stirling Primary athletes did the school proud at the recent Eastern Province Inter-Provincial Tournament (IPT), but one pupil stood out above the rest. Benjamin Heuer walked away with a well-deserved bronze medal while two other athletes from Stirling won gold and silver at the provincial games in Port Elizabeth. However, at the second regional games in Bloemfontein, the Grade 3 pupil did better and won gold in his age group. Every year, various IPT tournaments are hosted around the country. Teams are selected prior to the tournament from the arenas within that region. At the tournament, the provincial teams compete against all other participating teams to determine the champion. Teams which perform well at the provincial tournaments then proceed to the national leg of the tournament. The talented Ben represented the country last year at the Biathlon Championships and is top athlete at his school in a number of sporting codes. His parents, Sheldon and Angie Heuer, are extremely proud of their son, who works hard for his achievements. Like any parent, they try to encourage Ben with whatever he decides to do. They said Ben told them his dream was to play for the Proteas because his first love was cricket. Tennis is his fallback plan. Sheldon said Ben worked really hard and played sport almost every day, whether at school or at home just bouncing the ball around the yard. “Ben is very talented but mostly works really hard for his achievements. He has a very busy schedule and is always practicing. “He also runs on a regular basis and I think the best part is that he doesn’t even know he is working hard – he does everything purely because of the love he has for sport. “We are extremely proud of him and his achievements and we try, just like any other parents, to encourage and support him in any way possible in whatever he decides to do,” Sheldon said. Stirling Primary biathlon representative Richard Wadge said the young athlete had represented the country very well in the USA last year and had a bright future ahead of him. “Ben is really a remarkable and talented athlete. He is a great cricketer, tennis player, runner and swimmer and he really has a bright future ahead of him,” said Wadge. Ben’s running coach Samuel Saunders, who shared the same sentiments about the athlete as Wadge, said he had no doubt that Ben would do well at the nationals. “He is incredibly talented and does well in all sports. The boy is only nine and is already playing for the U13 tennis team. “I have a good feeling that he is going to do extremely well at the nationals,” the coach said. Known as one of the best table tennis playing schools in King Sabata Dalindyebo, Kasa Junior Secondary School in Elliotdale did not disappoint at a national tournament in Klerksdorp, North West, earlier this month. Kasa pupils raised the school – and the Eastern Cape’s – flag high as they won… July 19, 2017 In "School news" It was a victorious Biathle/Triathle World Championships for local athletes as the Buffalo City contingent in the South African team returned with a 21-medal haul between 12 athletes. Sixteen local athletes in total went to the competition which took place in Sarasota, Florida USA, over the past weekend and saw… October 27, 2016 In "Sport" By ROSS ROCHE National hockey action comes to the city next week when the 2016 South African Masters Hockey Tournament gets under way in East London. Last year’s SA masters hockey tournament took place in Potchefstroom, with Border Masters hockey making a presentation at the Annual General Meeting before the… July 28, 2016 In "Sport"