Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa received a boost to his presidential campaign over the weekend with a strong endorsement from AbaThembu acting king Azenathi Dalindyebo, who said his nation had pinned their hopes on him for the revival and unity of the ANC. Jailed King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo’s eldest son described Ramaphosa as the man who would lead and restore the organisation to its former glory. Ramaphosa was in Mthatha on Saturday for an ANC rally at Richardson Park Stadium, but in line with African royal protocol, paid the king a courtesy visit first at Bumbane Great Place, about 50km from Mthatha. The two leaders have met a number of times before. Azenathi led Ramaphosa to the royal grave site in Bumbane where the pair paid their respects to, among others, King Buyelekhaya’s father, King Sabata Jonguhlanga Dalindyebo, and King Dalindyebo the first. Acting king Azenathi assured Ramaphosa that he had the blessing of his ancestors and the AbaThembu going into the ANC national conference from December 16-20. “He is the person to steer South Africa in the right direction. We need people like him who can stabilise our economy, who can stabilise our country. We grant him the most favourable opportunity to take over South Africa. “We do believe he will be ANC president and will deliver the January 8 statement as the president,” Azenathi said. The king, 25, said it was ANC tradition for the deputy president to ascend when the incumbent president steps down. He asked: “Why not continue with that practice? Why now do we want to change things that worked for the unity of the ANC and created stability?” His questions drew huge applause from the thousands attending the political rally. Azenathi’s father, Buyelekhaya was an ANC member and uMkhonto WeSizwe cadre in exile in Zambia with his father Sabata. While in exile, Buyelekhaya also stayed with another presidential hopeful, Lindiwe Sisulu. She has been one of the ANC leaders critical of his jailing. Azenathi said: “AbaThembu kings have been supporting … the ANC for at least three generations – King Dalindyebo the first, Jonguhlanga and my father King Zwelibanzi – have been part of the ANC. They committed their lives to the ANC and fought for the liberation of the people of South Africa. “King Dalindyebo was involved in the formation of the ANC and donated 100 head of cattle when it was launched. My grandfather, King Jonguhlanga died in exile [in 1986] and my father was an MK cadre. “We are the only kingdom with so many generations of kings committing their lives to the ANC. It is for this reason that our hearts bleed over the chaos in the ANC. “We hope that with comrade Ramaphosa at the helm, the ANC will be restored to its former glory,” said Azenathi. He said Buyelekhaya went to jail feeling deserted by the ANC under the leadership of President Jacob Zuma. He would say the ANC was spitting on the graves of AbaThembu kings. His response to this was to dump the ANC by joining the DA. After laying wreaths on the royal graves, Ramaphosa and ANC leaders, including provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayithobi and OR Tambo mayor Nomakhosazana Meth, met in private with the acting king and his council. Ramaphosa said he was humbled by the endorsement and called Bumbane Great Place the original home of the ANC. “May the wishes of the king be fulfilled at the conference. I am honoured to be welcomed in this way by the king and his people,” said Ramaphosa. Later, Ramaphosa and the acting king were driven to a well-attended rally where Azenathi and ANC Youth League national executive member Thembi Siweya again publicly endorsed Ramaphosa and received huge applause. Azenathi and Ramaphosa called for a revived, united ANC at peace with itself, one without corrupt leaders fighting over positions and access to resources and state capture. During the rally, Ramaphosa tackled issues ranging from the downgrade of South Africa to junk status, state capture, poverty, inequality, HIV/Aids and unemployment. —
lulamilef@dispatch.co.za His father might be languishing in jail while he fights to keep the throne warm, but abaThembu Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo will put that aside as he walks down the aisle. Azenathi, 24, hopes to tie the knot with his sweetheart before November 25, the day of his inauguration as acting… November 8, 2016 In "Featured" He is a fresh-faced, 23-year-old university student, a fitness fanatic who jogs at least three times a week, as well as the son of one of the most controversial kings to come out of the Eastern Cape. Despite growing up in the shadow of a very flamboyant father, Prince Azenathi… October 10, 2015 In "News" Within days after being installed as the acting king of the abaThembu, Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo has announced that his first line of business will be a fight to free his jailed father, King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo. During his colourful coronation ceremony at Bumbane Great Place near Mthatha on Friday, the 24-year-old… November 28, 2016 In "Featured"