ByZoë Postman Independent sources have told GroundUp that the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority has fined Metrorail R3 million for employing security staff who are not registered under the PSIRA Act‚ some of whom have criminal records. PSIRA was established in 2001 to regulate the private security industry and ensure that security service providers act in the public and national interest in the interest of the private security industry itself. Western Cape regional security manager Ernest Hendricks wrote a damning letter to Tiro Holele‚ an executive in the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) in Pretoria‚ detailing the breakdown of security on the railway lines. In the leaked letter‚ dated 31 May‚ Hendricks stated that “it is a known fact that 80% of our [Metrorail security] staff is not PSIRA registered due to service providers who trained our staff and have failed to register the staff after completion of the training they conducted”. According to the Security Industry Regulation Act‚ no person or security company “may in any manner render a security service for remuneration‚ reward‚ a fee or benefit‚ unless such a person is registered as a security service provider in terms of this Act”. This means that all companies or individuals who work in the private security sector need to be registered with PSIRA‚ which‚ according to Hendricks’s letter‚ is not the case at Metrorail. In the letter‚ Hendricks also said that many of the security staff cannot be registered with PSIRA because of their criminal records. He wrote that Metrorail promised to assist in getting their records expunged but this never happened. Hendricks also wrote that in 2015 a decision was taken to transfer the staff with criminal records to other departments but “thus far this issue is still unresolved”. PSIRA did not answer GroundUp’s questions at the time of publication. A follow-up article will be written once GroundUp has received PSIRA’s response. – GroundUp : http://www.groundup.org.za/article/metrorail-fined-r3-million/ The Department of Education could find itself in hot water if it is found that a security guard accused of sexually assaulting 54 primary school learners in Soweto does not have the qualifications needed for the job. The Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority said it was trying to establish whether… October 12, 2017 In "News" Three KwaZulu-Natal bodyguards have been arrested for illegal possession of firearms. In a statement‚ the Hawks confirmed that the men had been taken into custody. The three are bodyguards for Mandeni Local Municipality Mayor Siphesihle Basil Zulu. The Hawks' statement confirmed that the three were from the same company -… September 20, 2017 In "Politics" The department of roads and public works has set aside R40-million to train 4000 young people in the province as qualified security guards. This will see each beneficiary receiving R10 000 worth of training over three years. MEC Thandiswa Marawu said after they had been trained they would be able… February 17, 2017 In "Featured"