By GUGU PHANDLE and TYLER RIDDIN Ongoing service delivery protests in Nompumelelo, Beacon Bay, took a nasty turn on Tuesday night when a ward councillor’s home was vandalised and his family threatened. Police made several arrests during the incident, with the suspects – all charged with public violence – appearing in the magistrate’s court yesterday. A visibly shaken ANC councillor Makhaya Bopi sat in the driver’s seat of his car at a nearby shopping mall parking lot to tell the Daily Dispatch of his experience. “When I got home on Tuesday evening I noticed an array of glass bottles outside my house. I paid no attention to that and drove into the yard like I normally do.” Moments later the glass bottles were being thrown at him. The protesters believe that Bopi is responsible for the lack of electricity in the area. Earlier this week, when the protesters blocked the N2 with burning tyres, residents expressed their frustration about Bopi. They claim he instructed Buffalo City Metro not to install electricity in the shack area of the township. “The councillor does nothing. He has been our councillor for 10 years,” said Siyabonga Ngxanga.   Bopi’s house was stoned and windows broken. His office, just across the road, was trashed, with documents scattered and appliances burnt. He said his children had been left traumatised. “My family and I escaped the raging crowd with the help of the police. I called them as soon as things got out of hand.” Bopi says he believes the attack on his home had nothing to do with the service delivery protest. “The community knows very well that I have been fighting for them. However, I am waiting on a response from the mayor’s office. This was a political attack and there is tension between the two leading parties in the community.” When the Dispatch visited the councillor’s home, it was strewed with broken glass and debris lay about the yard. Police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala said seven suspects were arrested and all appeared in court yesterday but she was uncertain of the results of their appearance. She said that rumours of an elderly woman dying as a result of not being able to get out of the township because of the protests were unfounded. “A 47-year-old lady was not feeling well and her husband took her to the hospital … police at the time were trying to disperse the protesters.” She added: “She was taken to Frere Hospital, where she passed on. The cause of death is still unknown.” Sizwe Kupelo, Eastern Cape health spokesman, said: “The ambulance was able to get in and out of Nompumelelo with no issues. There was no delay.”