Quigney residents woke up today to an “exceptionally” large sperm whale which had been washed up just metres from the East London Aquarium.  Kevin Cole, East London Museum principal scientist, said: “The washing up of the whale was first reported to me at 2.30am by Siani Tilney, Chief Marine Services for BCM. It is safe to say the whale washed up late last night. It is an exceptionally large, fully developed, male sperm whale.” Cole said the whale which was 18.4–metres-long and weighed in at an approximate 40 tons did not show any signs of trauma besides bite marks given post–death by “opportunistic sharks”.    “In this case it is most probable that this was a fully developed adult at the end of its life. This is indicated by the fact that it was showing signs of malnutrition. We also found parasites on the outside of its body which indicates that it was moving very slowly. This was probably a natural death. “We are waiting to see if the high tide will wash it out today [Thursday], if it does not then we will have to work with Buffalo City on other means of removal.”   Quigney residents woke up yesterday to an “exceptionally” large sperm whale which had been washed up metres from the East London Aquarium. Kevin Cole, East London Museum principal scientist, said: “The washing up of the whale was first reported to me at 2.30am by Siani Tilney, chief of marine services… November 17, 2017 In "News" An adult humpback whale washed up onto Kiwane Beach, some 46km outside East London along the R72 over the weekend, after residents in Kayser’s Beach spotted the already dead and bloated whale drift past some two weeks before. Locals who had heard about the beached whale rushed to the scene… September 25, 2017 In "News" Despite efforts by conservationists to rescue a stranded whale at Cove Rock on Sunday, the body of the 22m-long mammal was found washed up on the beach yesterday morning. East London Museum’s principal scientist Kevin Cole said the 40-ton fully grown fin whale had probably died of exhaustion after it… June 21, 2016 In "News"