For East London prothetist Marissa Nel, seeing children she has fitted with prosthetic limbs live an active normal life is so rewarding that she has entered her patients in Sunday’s SPAR Daily Dispatch Summer Fun Run. Twenty-five patients, one as young as eight, will be taking part in the annual fun in the sun morning run along the Esplanade today. Nine patients in wheelchairs will be pushed by athletes from the city’s running clubs, thanks to Nel and Current Consulting’s Bonnie Currin, who worked hand-in-hand to co-ordinate the patients’ participation. Nel said this would create an awareness for an inclusive society. “It will show that they can do what others can do which is get out into the sun and enjoy themselves,” said Nel, who won the Business Women’s Association award in the entrepreneur category last year. One of her best-known patients is sports- mad double amputee Ubuko Mpotulo, nine, who lost his legs and several fingers after contracting meningococcal septacaemia at the age of two. Nel stepped in last year and replaced his outdated prosthetic legs which had no moving parts for state-of-the-art limbs. “He has since received a scholarship from Selborne Primary and participates in sport, waterpolo and soccer and is also on the running team,” said Nel. “It is so important to invest in children, because then they not only survive, but thrive.” Mpotulo said he was looking forward to his first run tomorrow. “My legs are 50% comfortable because I get sores, but I still want to run and walk tomorrow because I love sports,” he said. lThe fun run starts at the Orient Pools at 9am tomorrow. There is a 4km and 8km route along the East London Esplanade. The 4km race is R60 for adults and R40 for U16s; the 8km is R70 for adults and R50 for U16s. Readers can still enter today at SUPERSPAR Amalinda. Late entries will be accepted at registration tomorrow before 8am, but there will be a late fee of R50 over and above the entry fee. — barbarah @dispatch.co.za Nkosinathi Mbabane from Zithulele village in Mqanduli lost his leg doing what he loved 13 years ago, and only this month can he walk again with a prosthetic leg. Mbabane, 41, remembers his soccer team Zithulele Cosmos playing against another village team Mdikene Celtics on Reconciliation Day in 2003. He… May 28, 2016 In "News" Businesswomen in East London were applauded for their contributions to the city’s business landscape at the elegant Businesswomen’s Association (BWA) regional business achiever awards on Saturday night. Women in the hospital, university and corporate sectors, as well as dynamic entrepreneurs in the hospitality and health spheres, were lauded at the glamorous… August 1, 2016 In "Featured" A motorbike enthusiast and double amputee is halfway through an epic 4000km cross-country ride to raise funds to buy prosthetic limbs for children. Gerda du Toit, who lost both her legs to diabetes two years ago, is hoping to raise R2-million. “My own experiences have made me appreciate life. Before… June 20, 2016 In "News"