US Consul- General Virginia Blaser visited Buffalo City Metro recently in a bid to strengthen US involvement in the city, focusing mainly on greening initiatives, health and education. Blaser, who has been consul-general of the Western, Eastern and Northern Cape provinces since August, gave the opening remarks at the Buffalo City low emissions development roadmap workshop last week, a developmental project supported by the US government along with Buffalo City Metro and the East London Industrial Development Zone, to reduce emissions, stimulate the economy and support a better future for the metro and all its citizens. The countrywide project, which was launched in 2015, seeks to find innovative low-emission development projects in SA municipalities. With funding from the US government, the programme works nationally with local governments to develop projects that will respond to climate change and help the country transition to a greener economy. Speaking with the Daily Dispatch, Blaser said she was interested in partnering with the Eastern Cape government to find other ways to further develop the province, particularly in health and education, which she identified as key areas of penetration. “We are here to work with our team to figure out how to realise the tipping point that the Cape provinces are approaching, and make sure we partner up in ways that will be mutually beneficial.” Blaser said she saw the Cape provinces as an entry point for investment into South Africa as a whole. “I am incredibly impressed by the Eastern Cape. There are pockets [of development] that are cutting edge and ahead of the game, and we are pleased to play our part in moving important projects ahead.” Speaking on health and education, she said they were important elements in a country’s system, as the foundations to the development of a country. “Anything a country wants to do in terms of development in economy and opportunities is reliant on health and education. If people aren’t healthy, all the other things that need to happen won’t happen. “Therefore, we put a vast majority of emphasis into health programmes. Another thing we’ll be looking closely at is education. “We are trying to find a few pilot projects that we can push to see how we can help broaden and upscale them. Health and education are personally important to me.” Blaser said the US consulate office would be providing significant funds for HIV anti-retroviral treatment, TB research, and operations of health care facilities. “Just last year the US government put $65-million (R900-million) into a five-year project to increase treatment and access to quality healthcare, particularly HIV and TB, to vulnerable populations.” She said it was vital to reignite energies into transforming the province from grassroots level upwards. — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za Buffalo City Metro (BCM) should position itself as a strategic centre servicing the eastern part of the Eastern Cape to galvanise development rather than looking inward. This was the message from the deputy minister of trade and industry Madala Masuku yesterday at the metro’s two-day Growth and Development Summit. Municipal,… October 31, 2015 In "News" Resumed, faster, more inclusive economic growth is perhaps our most pressing national development priority. Economic growth is expected to be only 1.5% this year – the same as last year – and to rise marginally to 1.7% in 2016. The slowdown in economic growth is taking its toll. Unemployment remains… November 4, 2015 In "Opinion" WHILE one appreciates the political rationale for creating a single Eastern Cape province, there is little or no evidence to suggest the often harsh competitive nature of relations between the west and east of the province has softened in any way. Not to have created a single province would have… June 13, 2013 In "Opinion"