President Jacob Zuma’s decision to summon all seven ANC presidential hopefuls to his residence almost backfired when he was confronted about his perceived bias. This was after his former ally and Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu wanted the president to tell them why he had “handpicked” his ex-wife Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma as his preferred successor. “Lindiwe put it to him, saying ‘you are questioning [Gwede] Mantashe for declaring his support for Cyril [Ramaphosa] to succeed [Zuma]’, but why did the president declare Nkosazana [Dlamini-Zuma] as his preferred presidential hopeful? “It is not fair,” said a source with intimate knowledge of the proceedings. The meeting took place on Thursday. Zuma’s aides called each of the seven presidential hopefuls on Thursday morning, inviting them to Mahlamba Ndlopfu, the presidential residence in Pretoria. This was followed by an
e-mail a few hours later inviting them individually. Present at the meeting, were Sisulu, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize, ANC chairwoman Baleka Mbete, former treasurer-general Mathews Phosa and the Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe. “Every one of us thought we were being invited to a one-on-one meeting, only to learn that it’s seven of us,” said a source who attended. The Dispatch can reveal today that Zuma told the politicians he was very concerned about next month’s elective conference turning violent. It is the first time that the governing party’s hot seat has had so many presidential nominations. It is understood that Zuma’s concern baffled the meeting’s attendees who wanted to know what informed the president’s fear. “But the question he could not answer was that if the Polokwane conference when he ousted an ANC president did not turn violent, why did he think that this one would turn violent?” said a source. They were referring to the 2007 elective conference at which Zuma contested then president Thabo Mbeki, who had sacked him as deputy president two years prior. The meeting was held while ANC branches across provinces were taking advantage of a week-long extension to continue to nominate their preferred presidential candidates. Another source close to the developments, claimed that Zuma’s overture to the candidates was informed by his realisation that Ramaphosa was leading in the nominations, allegedly with more than 60% of party branches backing him. Dlamini-Zuma’s support is said to be 30% of the branches, while the remaining candidates share the outstanding 10%. The Dispatch can also reveal today that the meeting resolved that Zuma should rather convene a meeting with the nine ANC provincial chairmen to appeal to them to carefully monitor the behaviour of their delegates at the national conference – set to take place from December 16-20 in Nasrec, Johannesburg. “He has no reason to make the candidates scapegoats. Provincial chairs must be held accountable for the conduct of their delegates, it is as simple as that,” said another source. — zineg@dispatch.co.za It is wrong and chauvinistic for people to judge ANC leaders by their spouses and not as individuals within the movement‚ says KwaZulu-Natal ANC chairperson Sihle Zikalala. Delivering the keynote address at eThekwini region ANCYL's 73rd celebrations leg held at King Goodwill Zwelithini Stadium in uMlazi south of Durban‚ Zikalala… October 8, 2017 In "Politics" ANC President Jacob Zuma summoned all presidential hopefuls to a meeting last night, highlighting his fears about the December elective conference becoming violent. Present at the meeting were deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize, chairwoman Baleka Mbete, former treasurer-general Mathew Phosa, Lindiwe Sisulu and Jeff Radebe. DispatchLIVE… November 24, 2017 In "Featured" Former Democratic Alliance parliamentary leader Lindiwe Mazibuko has said she supported ANC presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa to lead the governing party. Speaking at a panel discussion on Tuesday on the role of business in current South Africa‚ Mazibuko explained why it would be better for Ramaphosa to win the ANC… October 10, 2017 In "Politics"