A group of about 50 angry Phase 4 residents in Mthatha‘s Waterfall Township protested outside KSD municipal offices demanding answers on several service delivery issues.  They told the Daily Dispatch that their yards were filled with sewer-infested waters from blocked drains that have not been fixed since early last year. They also want answers on why their RDP homes have not been refurbished more than four years after a contractor was appointed while their electricity had been abruptly cut off by the municipality without any explanation last week. In addition, they said the municipality‘s books show that a tar road had been built in the heart of their residential area and yet the only thing visible was a pothole-riddled road which has never been upgraded since the RDP homes were built more than 20 years ago. Their RDP houses are reportedly part of the first houses built by city bosses in Mthatha around 1997. Waterfall falls under KSD municipality’s Ward 9. “We have written several letters but we just get sent from pillar to post,” said Busiswa Ndlala, a subcommittee member in Ward 9. “Our councillor has not done anything that is why we decided to come here ourselves. We want answers on the issues. Enough is enough now.” Municipal bosses at King Sabata Dalindyebo (KSD) municipality have roped in mining giant Anglo American and the Development Bank of Southern Africa to help turn around its dire financial situation and fix decaying infrastructure. The three organisations yesterday announced a collaborative project to improve the fortunes of one of the… May 20, 2015 In "News" Disgruntled Nompumelelo residents have vowed to continue with the service delivery protest in the township until Buffalo City Metro mayor Xola Pakati addresses them. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrFwLMQ6FTU Residents took to the streets this morning to block all main roads leading to Beacon Bay. Resident Portia Bontsi said they were frustrated over being… November 13, 2017 In "Featured" By SIMTHANDILE FORD Five years ago, Ayanda Spendu took part in her first service delivery protest. She wanted to help change Mqanduli for the better. However, little has changed. Residents say the only sign of “service delivery” is a line of unconnected electricity poles erected throughout Kwenxurha village, home to about… June 29, 2016 In "News"