Buffalo City residents are rolling up their sleeves and taking the initiative against illegal dumping within their communities by adopting vacant plots and turning them into vegetable gardens. And the metro has acknowledged their efforts by erecting signage which names those who have adopted the land to either beautify it or grow vegetables and by doing so, minimise illegal dumping. Most of these signs are in Mdantsane. BCM communication officer Bathandwa Diamond said the metro encourages and supports greening programmes – gardening and beautification only – on vacant plots. “Most of these people have not requested permission – they have identified a need to intervene with the challenges of illegal dumps. “The city supports the programme as it assists with reducing illegal dumps and improves the level of cleanliness in some areas. “Anyone can adopt a spot where there is uncontrollable illegal dumping activity in their neighbourhood.” Diamond said “Adopt-a-Spot” was started back in 2010 by citizens who had a passion for gardening and were interested in keeping their environment clean and green. “The main aim of the Adopt-a-Spot programme is to reduce illegal dumps by greening, so there is no time-frame as to how long one can keep a spot as it is in the interest of citizens to ensure the area is kept clean,” she said. Makwena Maluke, 82, said she had been gardener for more than 50 years and it was just part of her everyday life. “After growing up in an environment where gardening was the norm and where children used to steal vegetables from other people’s gardens, as a parent, I never wanted my children to be among that bunch, and that’s when I started my own vegetable garden. It grew from inside our yard to outside our yard onto anywhere where I could find land.” Referring to a sign that reads in part: “has now been adopted by Makwena Maluke” she said: “This BCM sign was put up by another woman working at the municipality, who saw me working on the garden. “I am at peace when I am in the garden and all of my troubles go away when I am there. The vegetables are my children too.” Keke Ntozini, 83, said he had also been gardening all his life. “For years I have been cultivating this land and working on the garden, but recently when someone from the municipality brought me this sign, the community has been asking me for co-opts, which I don’t have a problem with, but nobody is as committed to gardening as I am. “From as early as 5am I am in the garden, so that even if the sun comes out too strong during the day, I have already taken care of my vegetables. “The vegetable garden sustains my family and it also helps the community. Some people ask and some people buy, but I never turn anybody away.” Ntozini’s garden, which is tropical in theme and even features a stream running through it, is planted with maize, spinach, beetroot, pumpkin, tomatoes and carrots. — mbalit@dispatch.co.za Where the Pefferville community once discarded waste is now where they find daily sustenance. Tired of the mess and smell caused by an illegal rubbish dump directly outside his house, resident Harry Steward said he decided to roll up his sleeves, clean the area up and start a community food… October 31, 2015 In "News" The Buffalo City Metro (BCM) has invested R20-million to install water and sanitation infrastructure for the hundreds of residents of informal settlements in Mdantsane. Silvertown, considered one of the biggest in Mdantsane, will also benefit from the multi-year project. The settlement was formed early last year when residents invaded municipal… November 11, 2014 In "Metro" CONCERNS have been raised over an increase in illegal dumping outside some Mdantsane schools. Tensions are simmering between concerned residents opposed to the dumping and those who do it. The waste includes everything from builders’ rubble, domestic rubbish to dead animals. Some of the affected schools include Tom Panyana Primary… September 10, 2014 In "Metro"