President Jacob Zuma said on Monday he has directed the Minister of Finance‚ Malusi Gigaba‚ assisted by the Presidential Fiscal Committee‚ to identify concrete measures to urgently address the challenges identified in the Medium-term Budget Policy Statement. “The President as well as Cabinet have re-affirmed government’s commitment to maintain a sustainable fiscal framework and to ensure that a solution is found to address the roughly R40 billion gap that has been identified‚ through a combination of expenditure reductions and revenue-enhancing measures‚” the presidency said in a statement. President Zuma has directed that technical discussions of the Presidential Fiscal Committee take place‚ led by Minister Gigaba and the National Treasury‚ to focus on four areas‚ with a view to the proposals that emanate from this process being considered through the budget structures in preparation for the 2018 Budget. The four areas are: * To identify and finalise proposals for cuts in expenditure amounting to about R25 billion. Such proposed cuts should not be in areas that will negatively affect economic growth prospects and job creation. * To identify and finalise proposals for revenue-enhancing measures amounting to about R15 billion‚ including where appropriate‚ tax measures. * To develop a phased-implementation plan to enable the proposal for fee-free higher education for students from poor and working-class backgrounds‚ to be implemented in a fiscally sustainable manner. * To identify the package of economic stimulus measures that will be implemented to enable the economy to grow at a faster rate. President Zuma’s office said he would‚ “in the coming days”‚ meet with the Presidential Fiscal Committee to receive a progress report on the work done on these four tasks. Source: TMG Digital. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba is working with a team of ministers to prepare government for the upcoming visits of credit ratings agencies in May‚ June and later in the year. The visits follow the recent downgrade of SA’s sovereign credit rating to subinvestment grade. The agencies are expected to interact… May 11, 2017 In "Politics" By: Sunita Menon With Linda Ensor Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has released an action plan for the economy with firm timelines‚ which includes developing a framework for greater private-sector participation in projects run by the government and state-owned enterprises (SOEs). The plan also spells out the Treasury’s intention to reduce… July 13, 2017 In "Business" The rand continued its free fall against major currencies on Friday morning as the nation awoke to the news that Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan had been axed and replaced by former home affairs minister Malusi Gigaba as part of a major Cabinet reshuffle announced at midnight by President Jacob Zuma.… March 31, 2017 In "News"