More than 30 pupils from a King William’s Town high school could not write their exams yesterday because of a flooded bridge. Two Grade 12 pupils braved the shoulder-high water and managed to make it in time for their isiXhosa Paper 3 exam at Toise Senior Secondary School in Qaga village. The two took off their school uniforms, put them in packets and, using sticks to balance in the water, managed to successfully cross the bridge. On Wednesday, a group of boys had tried the same method but their school bags and shoes were swept away by the torrent. The bridge is one of two that links the 700 households in the village to neighbouring communities – and to essential services such as hospitals, clinics and the school, which is located in Nonkcampa village about 5km away. The school principal, Zweledinga Ntabeni, said on Wednesday, with help from the police, they had succeeded in transporting the pupils to school. However, Ntabeni said by yesterday the water made the risk too high and no one could assist. “Those two Grade 12 pupils took a huge risk crossing that bridge just because they were scared to fail. “This is an ongoing problem and it becomes an even bigger problem when it occurs during exam times,” said Ntabeni. He said he alerted the district director about the matter and had arranged for the affected pupils to write the outstanding paper at a later date. According to the villagers, both bridges started to flood on Wednesday in the heavy rain. Villagers, who were up in arms, said every time there was heavy rain they became trapped. When the Daily Dispatch arrived at the village around mid-morning, the Green River bridge was completely submerged and part of it had collapsed. The water at the second bridge had subsided. Kwanele Mabonga, 18, saw his school shoes being swept away by the water as he and two other pupils crossed the river on Wednesday to get to school. Mabonga said the water came up to their noses. “We had taken some of our clothes off and place them in packets. We were left with our pants and had put bricks in them for balance. “We held onto each other as we crossed the water. Our shoes, which were in the packet, and one of our backpacks were swept away,” said Mabonga. Councillor Kholiwe Faku said the village was one of many that the Buffalo City Metro recently inherited. It previously fell under the Peddie area. “As a result, they are not on our Integrated Development Plan but, because of the urgency of the matter, we will have to prioritise the construction of the bridges,” said Faku. — arethal@dispatch.co.za More than 30 pupils from a King William’s Town high school could not write their exams yesterday because of a flooded bridge. Two Grade 12 pupils braved the shoulder-high water and managed to make it in time for their isiXhosa Paper 3 exam at Toise Senior Secondary School in Qaga… November 17, 2017 In "News" RESIDENTS from Duncan Village, Mzamomhle near Gonubie and Ilitha township near King William’s Town were the worst affected by the heavy rains at the weekend . In Mzamomhle Nontathu Bota and her mother and three children had to flee their shack after it was flooded. “We managed to save our… April 23, 2013 In "News" A mother crying desperately for her four-year-old son to be saved from a flooded river is the only memory Aviwe Tembani holds of the tragedy which gripped a small village near Tsholomnqa, outside East London. He next remembers waking up in a hospital bed with his mother by his side.… July 29, 2015 In "Metro"