Protest action on the outskirts of Beacon Bay has been suspended for now after Buffalo City Metro mayor Xola Pakati met with residents from townships in the area yesterday. Nompumelelo and Ducats residents were left with some hope as Pakati listened to their grievances over service delivery. Among the issues raised were housing and transfer of land, to which the mayor responded saying a strategy would be found by month end. “Regarding the housing issue a way forward will be known after the end of this month should we find suitable land,” he said. Human settlements’ Mthobeli Mbambanisi echoed this saying they were in the process of finding suitable land to build more houses for shack dwellers. “Even if we do get the land it must be suitable for building on. There are sewage complications that must be avoided in the process as well,” he said. Residents took to the streets this week by embarking on protest action, which included the burning of tyres and blockading of all main roads to and from Beacon Bay. They demanded better housing, electricity in their shacks, schools, clinics, decent sanitation facilities, a community hall and a cemetery. Responding to the issue of a lack of electricity BCM infrastructure official Nceba Ncunyana promised feedback midweek next week. “We will be in talks with Eskom to see how we can resolve the electricity issue and you will get feedback by next week Wednesday latest,” he said. Community leader Songezo Nkungwini has promised that if they are not happy with the response come end of the month they will intensify their protest. He said, “the strike will be even bigger and more intense if we are not satisfied by the feedback they give us”. Disgruntled Nompumelelo residents have vowed to continue with the service delivery protest in the township until Buffalo City Metro mayor Xola Pakati addresses them. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrFwLMQ6FTU Residents took to the streets this morning to block all main roads leading to Beacon Bay. Resident Portia Bontsi said they were frustrated over being… November 13, 2017 In "Featured" Smoke clouds hung over Nompumelelo on the outskirts of Beacon Bay yesterday as angry residents continued to burn tyres and branches to block entry into the township. The protest started on Monday morning, with community members believing their lack of electricity is not being given priority by Buffalo City Metro.… November 15, 2017 In "News" Violence is threatening again in Nompumelelo township as frustrated residents accuse the mayor of failing to attend to their problems. Earlier this month, residents had a stand-off with law enforcement officers after they burnt tyres and blocked off roads in protest. At the centre of unhappiness was a power outage… February 26, 2015 In "News"