Serial paedophile Bruce Ehrlich, who last year ended up back in jail for violating his parole, is now a free man. Ehrlich was released from prison in August after completing his 15-year jail sentence, Correctional Services spokeswoman Vuyolwethu Gadu yesterday confirmed. The East London Magistrate’s Court in 2003 sentenced Ehrlich to 15 years imprisonment after he was convicted on 14 counts of indecent assault of minor boys. The former karate instructor had been convicted of similar offences in Knysna in the early 1990s. In 2010, despite being dubbed at his various trials by expert witnesses as both a “regressive” and “fixated” paedophile, he was released on parole having served just seven years of his 15-year sentence. He violated his parole conditions, which included a prohibition from leaving the East London magisterial district. Gadu said that his sentence had now “expired” and he was released for this reason. No conditions apply to this release and he is now free to go where he likes within the law. While out on parole Ehrlich established Kwikpave, an East London-based company that he has expanded via franchising. It was because of its expansion that Ehrlich claimed in court papers that he had to leave the East London area to tend to his other franchises in Port Elizabeth and Cape Town. By so doing he broke his parole conditions. Although he is not a lawyer, Ehrlich is well known in the Grahamstown High Court, where he has represented himself and other prisoners on numerous occasions, usually in a bid to improve prison conditions. Serial paedophile Bruce Ehrlich, 54, who was sent back to jail on April 11 after the parole board found he had broken his parole conditions, is suing for his freedom. He was found to have played squash at an East London sports club with minor boys. Erhlich was in the… November 4, 2016 In "Featured" Convicted serial paedophile Bruce Ehrlich, who is back in jail for violating his parole, is taking the parole board to court. If his bid to have its decision to revoke his parole reviewed fails, the now successful businessman, who founded and manages the East London-based paving franchise KwikPave, may well… June 7, 2016 In "News" The Grahamstown High Court has dismissed convicted paedophile Bruce Ehrlich’s bid to have the correctional service’s decision to deny him parole set aside. Yesterday Judge Gerald Bloem refused the request with costs. Ehrlich, who was sentenced to 15 years’ imprisonment on 14 counts of indecency and assaults to minor boys… January 18, 2017 In "Featured"