East London residents are invited to an early Christmas celebration for one night only, with the internationally acclaimed Drakensberg Boys’ Choir. The boys, who are currently on tour throughout the country, will make a stop in the city on Monday evening, performing at the Hudson Park High Centenary Hall. Speaking to the Saturday Dispatch, choir marketing manager Belinda Espag said they were looking forward to returning to East London after many years. Celebrating their 50th anniversary this year, the choir has earned its stripes across the globe. “We have not visited the city in a few years and we decided it was time. “The reception we’re receiving so far is a clear indication that the decision was the right one,” she said. Espag said the tours around the country also offered the boys the opportunity to reunite with old Drakensberg boys. “It’s a brotherhood that never goes away, and being in East London will be another opportunity to reconnect once more,” she said. Celebrating 50 years in choral music, Espag said the passion for making music was what had sustained the choir through the years. “It has been a wonderful year. The boys have had the opportunity to talk about the school on numerous radio stations and TV programmes including Cart Blanche. “And they toured Japan for six weeks, performing in 23 shows, to 35000 people. A brotherhood exists among the boys, old and new, and that has been sustained by a commitment to choral music. “I believe that makes them perfect ambassadors of South Africa.” Hudson Park High music teacher Eugene Gouws, an old Drakensberg boy himself, said he was excited to have the choir on the school’s grounds. “The choir is huge. As an old boy, the visit is a big deal for me. And as a choir teacher, I’m excited that pupils will to get to see what’s possible. Choir culture is a bit dry in East London. “Tickets are flying. Our hall is already half full, and I’d advise everyone to get hold of a ticket before they’re sold out.” Espag said: “The Noël programme is about a celebration of Christmas through music. “Audience members can look forward to being serenaded by a professional group of youngsters that bring joy and pride to all who listen.” Get into the Christmas spirit with Noël with the Drakensberg Boys’ Choir, taking place on Monday at the Hudson Park High School Centenary Hall from 6.30pm. Tickets are R120 for adults, and R80 for pupils and pensioners, available from the primary and high schools, and online on www.dbc.nutick ets.co.za. — nonsindisoq @dispatch.co.za. AN Eastern Cape boy with a golden voice has the opportunity to attend the Drakensberg Boys Choir School at no cost, courtesy of East London businessman Tony Cotterell. Kempston Group owner Cotterell will foot the bill for the talented boy’s school and boarding fees, uniform, stationery and any tour fees required,… April 12, 2016 In "Metro" The Bala Brothers live concert made its American television debut this week. Two of the multitalented sibling trio were in the US for their promotional tour. Zwai and Loyiso arrived in New York last week to promote their upcoming international tour. The brothers last year signed a deal with the Public… January 15, 2015 In "Entertainment" Three years after staging its first live performance at the uLoyiso Community Church, the Mdantsane Gospel Choir is ready to launch its debut album. The launch will take place on Sunday at the God is Able Fellowship in Mdantsane. ChoIr co-founder Luckie Shongwe said they started in 2013 with the… November 1, 2016 In "Entertainment"