Police are offering a R50 000 reward for information that might lead to the arrest, successful prosecution, conviction and sentencing of Bluewater farmer Jason Winrow’s killers. Winrow was killed on his farm on July 29 in an incident that sparked more fears of farm attacks in the Eastern Cape. His lifeless body was found at his front gate with two gunshot wounds and a stab wound. The suspects fled with Winrow’s Hilux bakkie, a wallet and a cellphone. Four months after his brutal murder, police are yet to make an arrest, opting to offer a R50000 reward. Provincial police spokesman captain Khaya Tonjeni said: “Jason Winrow arrived at the gate of his farm and as he alighted from the vehicle to open the gate he was accosted by unknown suspects who shot and stabbed him. The suspects fled with his vehicle. Murder and armed robbery cases were opened and are under investigation.” The spokesman said the deceased’s vehicle had not yet been recovered. “The vehicle has a black snorkel on the right front of the vehicle and a silver galvanised cattle rail on the load body.” Tonjeni called on anyone who might have information regarding the whereabouts of the suspects to come forward. Contact Lieutenant-Colonel Andrew Middleton on 082-779-7150 or SAPS Crime Stop 08600 1111 or Crime Line 32211. “All the information will be treated with the highest confidentiality,” Tonjeni said. lTwo people were killed while a third is fighting for his life at Grey Hospital after two cars collided head-on on the N2 near Nonkcampa village outside King William’s Town yesterday morning. Tamara police opened a case of culpable homicide after a silver BMW and a white KIA Sportage collided in the early hours. While the cause of the accident is still unknown, it comes just a day after the department of transport issued a rain warning urging motorists to be vigilant. A man who sustained serious injuries was admitted to Grey Hospital. The deceased could not be named yesterday as their next of kin had not yet been informed of their death. Police spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa asked for anyone who might have witnessed the accident to come forward and call 040-659-7080. — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za The farming community of Blue Water in the Great Kei local municipality is living in shock and fear following the murder of farm owner Jason Winrow. The body of 47-year-old Winrow was found in a pool of blood at his farm’s gate on Saturday morning with two gunshot wounds and… August 1, 2017 In "Featured" While more than 30 taxi operators have been killed in the Eastern Cape since 2015, the Hawks have offered a R100000 reward for information for just one of those cases. The crime elite unit offered the reward this week for information leading to the arrest of the killers of well-known… September 21, 2017 In "News" Two East London farms were raided this week as police and farmers cracked down on rampant stocktheft costing millions of rands in losses.  The farms, one along the N6 and one in Mooiplaas, are believed to be owned by farmers allegedly involved in the business of selling stolen livestock. In… June 8, 2016 In "News"