A village in Libode could soon become a hub for the production of bricks, roof tiles and ceramic tiles if a Mthatha-based company mines hectares of red clay deposits found there. Woodfields 2006 Trading Enterprise wants to start open-cast mining of the clay in Mphangane village. Its director, Siyakholwa Sompini, told the Dispatch that the clay samples he took to experts for examination were judged on par with some of the best in South Africa. He said they were hoping to mine about 13.2ha for the clay, which was mostly used to produce facebrick, roof tiles and ceramic tiles. Should the plan be approved, the little village of Mphangane could soon be bustling with heavy machinery and big trucks. The company has appointed Ikamva Consulting to conduct an environmental impact assessment (EIA) study. An EIA notice was placed in the Dispatch last Wednesday. In it, Ikamva revealed that an application for an environmental authorisation for the project in terms of the National Environmental Management Act 107 of 1998, together with an application for a mining permit as per the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002, had been submitted to the Department of Mineral Resources. Ikamva’s environmental officer Andiswa Dweba said their role was to assist Woodfields in obtaining the necessary permits as legislated by the National Environmental Management Act. “This EIA is done in stages, where you first lodge an application with the competent authority. “Then you commence with public participation, whereby you advertise in local newspapers informing people about the proposed development, place a noticeboard on site, attend meetings with local communities and give them an opportunity to comment on reports,” she added. Dweba said the EIA was meant to identify how the environment would be negatively affected by the proposed mining activity and come up with measures on how this could be mitigated during the construction and operational phase of the project. Woodfields has previously been involved in sand mining along the Wild Coast. Sompini said he had already taken two different samples of the clay for preliminary evaluation by experts. A copy of the results of the tests seen by the Dispatch reveals that one of the samples was found to have low radiation value, acceptable water absorption and shrinkage, as well as high unfired and fired strength. This meant it was suitable for brick and pottery manufacturing. The proposed mining has received a blessing from both Nyandeni municipal bosses and Mphangane village residents. Chief Mthawelanga Ndamase, the village’s traditional leader, said they had held meetings with Sompini who informed them of how the venture would benefit villagers. “We feel lucky about this because when the homelands ceased to exist, so did many factories in Transkei,” Ndamase said. He said the mining could also see the construction of a factory in the village, which would create jobs for the many unemployed locals. He said the project would benefit the greater community of Nyandeni too as it would lead to other projects, including the fixing of roads. Nyandeni mayor Mesuli Ngqondwana said they expected that a minimum of about 150 unskilled labour jobs and 20 skilled labour jobs would be created through the project. “It also bears the potential of introducing local companies to some processes in the value chain including in transportation, security and other related areas,” he said. Water and electricity supply to Mphangane would be a huge factor in the success of the project. — sikhon@dispatch.co.za