More than a hundred underprivileged children will receive festive season gifts this year, all thanks to Selborne Primary School boys who collected a total of R3000 towards the Santa Shoebox Project, initiated at the school by a Grade 4 pupil. The school will purchase toys, festive treats and also pack donated clothes to fill hundreds of shoeboxes for the project. Each box will be decorated by the pupils at the school. The boxes will then be distributed to various orphanages and centres around East London. Grade 4 pupil Jason Tyler said he was inspired to get his school involved in the national charity drive when he saw his father’s fiancée, Debbie Theron, making a Santa Shoebox for a disadvantaged pupil. Jason volunteered to help with the box. While putting the box together, Jason said Theron told him that her daughter’s school made shoeboxes every year for the less fortunate. “I thought the Santa Shoebox Project was a great idea, because not everyone is fortunate enough to get treats, toys or new items around the festive season. I thought it would be pretty cool if our school could do the same,” he said. Selborne Primary acting principal Abrie Pepler said he thought the Santa Shoebox suggestion was a brilliant idea and he had no hesitation in approving the project. He said the school really encouraged pupils to do good and helping the less fortunate in any way possible. He said the school would now try to make boxes every year. “I receive letters and requests from pupils to run projects on a regular basis and it is always so heartwarming and inspiring to see such little but brave hearts come up with fantastic ideas on projects they would like the school to start or adopt. “Jason is a really humble and generous pupil who really goes out of his way to ensure that he contributes to doing good. I was really touched by his letter and with the help of the staff and involvement of the school, the boys managed to raise R3000 for the project. We are really proud of all the pupils for their dedication and generosity,” said Pepler. Selborne Primary School has taken learning to the next level with the introduction of a 3D printer which turns digital file information into three-dimensional solid objects. Using the printer, the school has so far made a miniature skeleton, printed bone by bone. The school’s emblem has also been printed. Using… August 27, 2015 In "News" By ZIPO-ZENKOSI NCOKAZI A grade 2 pupil’s compassion for children living with cancer has seen him raise R2400 for CHOC East London. Selborne Primary School pupil Max Jansen, 8, said he got the idea for his colouring-in competition after hearing about someone who had cycled for cancer while raising funds… June 25, 2016 In "Local Heroes" Xolani Breakfast, who lost all his belongings when his shack was destroyed by a fire last month, received the shock of his life when a nine-year-old gave him R1000 to help him back on his feet.  Connor Maree, a Grade 3 pupil at Selborne Primary School, took money from his… September 5, 2016 In "Local Heroes"