South Africa return to Italy for the first time today since their historic defeat by the Azzurri in Florence in November 2016, which coach Allister Coetzee called the darkest moment of his career. The 54-year-old Coetzee knows his future could depend on how the Springboks perform in the north-eastern city of Padua, not far from Venice. At the time of Italy’s historic 20-18 victory it had looked that Coetzee would not see out 2016 but he survived and has rebuilt a squad which in Italy has just five players from that fateful day last November. The Springboks arrive in Italy after bouncing back from a record 38-3 drubbing by Ireland two weeks ago by edging France 18-17 in Paris last Saturday. Coetzee knows how motivated Italy – coached by Irishman Conor O’Shea – will be to prove that last autumn’s victory was no fluke. “We respect the Italian side, they are well coached and I know they will be up for the challenge,” said Coetzee. “However, we focus on ourselves and a disciplined and clinical performance is what is needed this weekend. “It would be important for our pack to again create a good platform off which to play from and therefore our set piece will be key in the expected wet conditions,” said Coetzee, who has won just ten of 23 Tests since taking the helm in 2016. Skipper Eben Etzebeth will again lead the Springboks after the giant lock shrugged off a lower leg injury which he suffered in Paris. Flanker Pieter-Steph du Toit returns from concussion suffered in the Ireland mauling as Bongi Mbonambi makes his first start after 12 caps off the bench in place of Malcolm Marx, who has a shoulder injury. Chiliboy Ralepelle replaces Mbonambi on the bench with uncapped back Warrick Gelant preferred to Damian de Allende amongst the replacements. “It’s part of our history. I’m not interested in it. We are focused on our future and our future is South Africa on Saturday in Padua,” said O’Shea, the architect of the famous victory in his first year in Italy. “It will be a very, very tough game. They are a better team than a year ago. But we are also ourselves.” Italy ended a series of nine consecutive defeats going back to their win over South Africa by winning their opening November Test against Fiji 19-10 in Sicily but lost the second 31-15 in Florence to Argentina. “I’m sure we can be very competitive on Saturday against the Springboks if our focus is the right one,” said the former Harlequins coach. “The Springboks are a great team, a month ago they were about to beat All Blacks. It is true that they struggled a lot against Ireland but over the past week have defeated France. “But, as always, we have to think about ourselves, our performance, and not the opponents. We have great players in every role, just like them. We will have to repeat the high level performance of last week. “We want to close this 2017 with a performance that will make our fans proud of this national team.” Flanker Giovanni Licata will make his first start for Italy as O’Shea made two changes. Licata, who has won two caps off the bench, replaces Francesco Minto while the other change sees Angelo Esposito replace Leonardo Sarto on the right wing. Under O’Shea they have won only four of 21 Tests and three of those were against tier-two nations. — AFP Padua- Allister Coetzee didn’t talk about his future following his team’s 35-6 beating of Italy at the Stadio Euganeo. The Springbok coach didn’t need to. His team did the talking on his behalf as they replicated training field routines and blackboard battle plans against a team that was responsible for… November 26, 2017 In "News" Normally there would be very little for the Springboks to gain from a match against Italy, but in the context of the season they’ve endured tomorrow’s clash at the Artemio Franchi Stadium is vital. With only four wins from 10 Tests in 2016, and just one victory in their last… November 18, 2016 In "Sport" Springbok coach Allister Coetzee chose a team with a view to Rugby World Cup 2019 when he named his last squad of 2016 to face Wales yesterday. The under-fire coach picked three uncapped players in the starting lineup – wing Jamba Ulengo‚ centre Rohan Janse van Rensburg and flank Uzair… November 25, 2016 In "Featured"