Police are searching for four balaclava-clad armed suspects who robbed the Berea Pharmacy shortly before closing time this evening.
The pharmacy closes before 9pm. The incident occurred around at 8.40pm. Cambridge police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said four men entered the pharmacy, one armed with a firearms and allegedly held up two employees who were manning the cash tills.
The staff were pointed with a firearm and they then complied.
He said the unidentified men then helped themselves to the cash from the tills before fleeing the scene in a blue Toyota Avanza. They took an undisclosed amount of cash, Mbi said. He said shots were fired and no one was injured during the ordeal.
Mbi said it was still unclear whether there were customers in the pharmacy when the armed robbery occurred.
He said members of the Cambridge visible police were still on the ground searching for the suspects and their getaway vehicle. No arrests have been made.
Mbi said anyone with information regarding the robbery could call the police crime line on 08600 10111 and information received would be treated as confidential. Berea Pharmacy will be operating as usual after an armed robbery of the store on Tuesday night. Captain Mluleki Mbi, of the SAPS, said: “It is alleged that four men of which three were armed entered the premises, held the staff at gunpoint and took an undisclosed amount of cash… November 22, 2017 In "Featured" A man was shot in his head by two suspects before they robbed him of cash estimated at R30000 inside an East London business yesterday. He survived. The incident occurred shortly before 4pm inside the premises of SA Home Loans in Princes Road, Vincent. Shortly after the incident, police spokesman… February 12, 2016 In "News" An armed robbery of the PEP store in Devereux Avenue, Vincent resulted in three suspects getting away with an undisclosed amount of cash. Captain Mluleki Mbi, of the SAPS, said: “The robbery happened just before midday yesterday [Thursday]. Police were on the scene just minutes after receiving the call.” “Witnesses… November 10, 2017 In "News"