A former contracts manager at Eskom has denied allegations by his former bodyguard that he gave bags of money to various people‚ including a Sunday Times journalist. In a letter directed to a MoneyWeb reporter‚ France Hlakudi’s lawyers say an affidavit deposed by his former bodyguard‚ Ntokozo Dubazana‚ is fraught with lies. Dubazana’s affidavit was distributed by suspended acting Eskom chief executive Matshela Koko’s lawyer to journalists during Koko’s disciplinary hearing on Thursday. The affidavit has not officially been handed in as part of the documents in the hearing. The affidavit alleges that Hlakudi gave Dubazana bags full of money to hand to Sunday Times journalist Mzilikasi wa Afrika‚ Eskom’s interim head of group capital Peter Sebola‚ Eskom executive committee member Abram Masango and ANC Youth League president Collen Maine. Hlakudi’s lawyers said in the letter to online publication MoneyWeb: “Mr Dubazana’s affidavit is a web of lies. Our client dismissed Mr Dubazana for misconduct.” The Sunday Times has denied these allegations and has called on Koko to provide proof of the allegations. Wa Afrika has written a series of stories about how Impulse International raked in contracts worth about R1-billion from Eskom. State Security Minister Bongani Bongo claimed he was sent by acting Eskom board chairman Zethembe Khoza when he offered a bribe to parliamentary inquiry evidence leader Advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara‚ the Sunday Times reported. This shocking revelation is contained in an sworn affidavit submitted to parliament’s top officials by Vanara‚ which… November 26, 2017 In "News" Suspended Eskom executive Matshela Koko has revealed the ace up his sleeve in disciplinary proceedings currently under way at Megawatt Park‚ the Johannesburg head office of the state power utility. On Thursday evening Koko’s legal team produced a declaration of conflict of interest dated 25 September 2016‚ which was allegedly… October 20, 2017 In "News" Suspended acting Eskom CEO Matshela Koko has pleaded not guilty to six charges levelled against him by his employer in relation to his failure to declare a conflict of interest‚ saying he had written to and discussed the situation with former Eskom chairman Ben Ngubane. Koko was suspended based on… October 18, 2017 In "News"