The six-year imprisonment sentence imposed on Oscar Pistorius for the murder of his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp was “shockingly lenient” and trivialises the seriousness of the offence‚ the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) has found. The SCA on Friday set aside the jail term imposed by the Pretoria High Court on Pistorius last year and replaced it with 13 years and five months. The judgment comes after the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) approached the SCA to appeal against Pistorius’s sentence‚ which it argued was “shockingly low”. “I am of the view that the court a quo [the court below] misdirected itself in its assessment of an appropriate sentence‚” said Judge Willie Seriti. “The sentence of six years’ imprisonment is shockingly lenient to a point where it has the effect of trivialising this serious offence‚” Judge Seriti found. He said Pistorius had failed to explain why he fired the fatal shots and his testimony was “vacillating and untruthful”. The court also found that the trial court over-emphasised Pistorius’s personal circumstances. “I am of the view that there are no substantial and compelling circumstances which can justify the departure from the prescribed minimum sentence‚” Seriti said. The SCA ruled that Pistorius should receive credit for the periods of imprisonment and correctional supervision he has already served. Pistorius was convicted of culpable homicide in 2014‚ but the SCA upgraded his conviction to murder in 2015. Paralympian Oscar Pistorius was being sent like a ping pong ball between courts and the state’s application for leave to appeal against the five-year sentence should be dismissed with costs. The murder case of Pistorius had been exhausted beyond the point of conceivable exhaustion. Counsel for Pistorius Barry Roux SC… August 26, 2016 In "News" Oscar Pistorius’s six-year jail sentence for killing his girlfriend Reeva Steenkamp has been increased to more than 13 years. The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) on Friday set aside the six-year imprisonment sentence imposed on the former Paralympic athlete by the Pretoria High Court last year and replaced it with… November 24, 2017 In "News" The Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) is expected to deliver judgment on Friday in the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA)’s application for appeal against Oscar Pistorius ‘s sentence. In July last year the Pretoria High Court sentenced the former paralympic athlete to six years’ imprisonment for the murder of Reeva Steenkamp.… November 23, 2017 In "News"