Eastern Cape police are searching for a man who went missing while on his way to renew his vehicle licence last week. Simphiwe Galela of Alice left his home on Tuesday last week at about 9am and he never made it back home. According to Eastern Cape police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni, Galela was driving a Chevrolet sedan at the time. “The missing person was at the time driving his silver grey Chevrolet Aveo with registration number FXT 012 EC. He never made it back home and the matter was reported to the police to investigate. It’s been a week now without any clues of what could have happened to him,” said Tonjeni. The last person to see him was his neighbour, who saw him in a local supermarket. “He apparently forgot a grocery shopping list at home and it was given to a neighbour who last saw him at Twins Super Market. Another person last saw him coming out of a local bank.” Police are appealing to anyone who might have seen him or his vehicle to contact detective Captain Shyman Matwa on 082-319-9241 or Alice Detectives on 040-653-1252. — bonganif@dispatch.co.za A Stutterheim family has just endured a second Christmas searching for their missing relative. Pensioner Mbuzeni Ngemntu, 78, was last seen outside his Kubusi village home on December 22 last year. Frantic searches at mortuaries, police stations and hospitals have so far yielded no positive results. Ngemntu, who was last… December 29, 2015 In "News" Techno-savvy  farmers rallied around Stutterheim farmer Ian Cawthorn, 35, who was attacked by a gang at his farmstead at noon on Sunday. Police were also commended for their role in an operation which involved a police helicopter. About 50 farmers and 10 Stutterheim residents took part in the action, which resulted… April 5, 2016 In "News" A 79-year old Eastern Cape Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) activist who spent time with Nelson Mandela and others in prison on Robben Island was shot dead in Centane near Butterworth last week. Pensioner Likhadi Aba’s vehicle was found burnt near his lifeless body when it was discovered last Monday morning.… May 12, 2016 In "News"