By Sikonathi Mantshantsha And Neo Goba The prosecution in Eskom’s disciplinary process against Matshela Koko was forced to close its case prematurely on Saturday after witnesses declined to testify against the suspended former acting CEO. Evidence leader Cassim Moosa told advocate Mzungulu Mthombeni‚ chairman of the hearing‚ that a number of witnesses had declined his invitation to testify against Koko. This means Eskom will struggle to prove the serious allegations against Koko‚ paving the way for him to be reinstated and to assume the “rotating” CEO’s seat that was vacated by Brian Molefe in 2016. Human resources executive Elsie Pule; former group capital executive Abram Masango; acting group capital head Peter Sebola; and former project managers at the Kusile power station Frans Sithole and France Hlakudi are among those who declined to testify. Koko‚ who acted as CEO between December and May‚ stands accused of conflict of interest and for his failure to disclose his stepdaughter’s shareholding in Impulse International‚ a company awarded more than R1bn in Eskom tenders by a department under his control. – BusinessLIVE Suspended acting Eskom CEO Matshela Koko has pleaded not guilty to six charges levelled against him by his employer in relation to his failure to declare a conflict of interest‚ saying he had written to and discussed the situation with former Eskom chairman Ben Ngubane. Koko was suspended based on… October 18, 2017 In "News" The disciplinary inquiry of suspended Eskom executive Matshela Koko was adjourned early on Wednesday night‚ after the company's case presenter failed to secure key witnesses to give evidence. The inquiry centres around six charges relating to Koko's alleged failure to declare a conflict of interest relating to contracts worth more… October 19, 2017 In "News" The Eskom board has decided to take disciplinary action against executive Matshela Koko‚ the utility's interim chairperson said on Wednesday. "The board has taken a decision to pursue disciplinary action against Mr Koko. The minister of public enterprises has been informed of this decision‚" Zethembe Khoza said at a briefing… July 19, 2017 In "News"