The parents of a three-year-old disabled boy have spoken of their struggle after his grant suddenly stopped more than eight months ago. South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) says his case is “under investigation”. Devern Cassels’s lower body does not function and, as a result, he cannot walk and uses a colostomy bag to relieve himself as he was born without any private parts. He also cannot talk. Devern’s heartbroken mother, Chervonne Muller, said: “I wish there was something I could do. He lies there all day, every day. Sometimes I use a pram but he doesn’t like it. He just wants to be in my arms. “I can’t even buy nappies for him because I don’t have money. I am unemployed. I have visited Sassa many times but they just tell me it’s under investigation. They can’t explain to me why they are investigating him. It is heartbreaking.” The last time Devern received his disability grant, according to his mother, was in February. “They keep on telling us about ‘Pretoria’.” Muller said she could not look for a job because her son needs 24-hour care as he can’t do anything for himself. She sometimes has to depend on handouts from neighbours, but struggles because her son is in desperate need of medication. Muller said: “It hurts to know that my son doesn’t have his manhood. “They said I was untraceable that is why they stopped his grant,” Muller said. She added she constantly visits specialists at Red Cross Hospital in Cape Town. Devern’s grandmother Thelma Cassels has also made several visits to Sassa’s local office, but her attempts have been equally fruitless. “They keep on saying the matter is under investigation. I don’t know what the investigation is about. I’m under a lot of stress because the child needs medication, which we cannot afford. “My grandchild can’t walk, can’t talk. It is my duty to help his parents where I can, but I need Sassa to do its job as well,” she said. Speaking to Dispatch earlier this week, Sassa spokeswoman Sandy Godlwana said: “Sassa can confirm that the grant was stopped by the agency as they were investigated for one or another reason”. Godlwana said the investigations had to be thorough to ensure there were no comebacks that would impact on the beneficiary. Godlwana refused to say more, stating: “Sassa is not allowed to provide beneficiary information regarding investigations done on a specific grant to a third party without a power of attorney.” She said they were willing to share information with the beneficiary herself. “The investigation will be finalised on Friday November 17. Upon authenticating the grant, backpay will be paid from the date that it lapsed.” FAMILIES who depend on social grants were left stranded this month as some went home empty- handed and others with less than is due to them. Now grant beneficiaries are up in arms, saying they are tired of suffering from South African Social Security Agency (Sassa)’s new system. “Since we… April 9, 2013 In "News" Seven months after arresting a Kwelera grandmother for assaulting an eight-year-old disabled boy, police have yet to finalise the case. Nozimbo Skade, 62, was arrested on January 21 by Blue Water police after allegedly hitting a disabled boy on the head with a plank. The child’s mother, who cannot be… September 2, 2015 In "Metro" A MDANTSANE pensioner has fallen prey to fraudsters who allegedly abused his mental handicap to steal his money. Patricia Majola claimed that her brother, Lawrence Majola’s disability grant had been stolen by a former landlord. She said the landlord attacked Lawrence in Highway, Mdantsane last month, two weeks before he… March 6, 2013 In "News"