Sivuyile Mbuqe, the man arrested for being in possession of world champion Zolani Tete’s stolen 55 inch TV, was yesterday released on R500 bail at the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court. The 31-year-old was arrested at his NU13 home on Monday after Tete was tipped off about his TV, which was stolen from his NU17 home while he was training in Johannesburg preparing for last weekend’s fight. “Last Born”, as Tete is often affectionately known, received the news of his TV being found shortly after arriving back from his historic victory in Northern Ireland yesterday, where he knocked out KwaZulu-Natal’s Siboniso Gonya in 11 seconds at the weekend. Tete’s manager, Mlandeli Tengimfene, said: “We got information that someone sold the TV to another person around Mdantsane. “We followed this up and contacted the police.” Tengimfene said the person who bought the TV wanted to be reimbursed the money he had spent. “He wanted us to give him R3000. We told him if we gave him the money that would mean that we bought the same TV twice. “The police said they could not arrest the guys who [allegedly] broke into Zolani’s home because of lack of evidence. “They said all they can do for now is to take statements from them,” he said. While Gonya will live to fight another day after being dropped by a solid Tete right-hand in Belfast, the 55-inch TV might never work again. As a result, Tete does not have a TV set to watch reruns of his historic 11-second fight. “As much as I am happy to have my TV set back, I have to say it is in a very bad condition. I doubt it will ever work again. “I know jobs are scarce but that is no reason for a person to steal from another. “I worked hard for what I have. At the moment I do not have a TV thanks to them. These young kids should try look for another hobby because this path they’ve chosen will lead them nowhere,” Tete said. Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said: “I can confirm that a man was arrested at his home in Mdantsane yesterday.” The spokesman said the suspect was charged with possession of suspected stolen goods. “We reiterate our call to members of the public to refrain from buying stolen goods,” Mbi said. The case was postponed to January 26 next year. — zikhonam@
dispatch.co.za World boxing champion Zolani Tete’s Mdantsane NU17 home was burgled over the weekend by thugs who stole some of his property, including a television set. Tete is in Johannesburg preparing for his upcoming title fight in Northern Ireland on November 18. The burglary incident has been confirmed by the police… November 6, 2017 In "News" Zolani “Last Born” Tete will move into better lodgings thanks largely to the efforts of sports, recreation, arts and culture MEC Pemmy Majodina. News of East London’s IBF junior-bantamweight world champion’s dire living conditions sparked some people to offer their help with Majodina leading the fray. This while Tete’s manager… February 12, 2015 In "Sport" SOUTH Africa has a second major world champion after Mdantsane boxer Zolani Tete won a lopsided points decision over Japanese Teiru Kinoshita to take the vacant IBF junior- bantamweight crown at the Portopia Hotel in Kobe, Hyogo, Japan yesterday. Tete, from NU12 Mdantsane, totally dominated the fight despite facing a… July 19, 2014 In "Sport"