Pupils travelling to Gonubie High School yesterday morning had a lucky escape, sustaining only minor injuries, when the taxi they were travelling in lost control and overturned. The taxi, carrying 16 pupils, 14 of them in Grade 8 and two in Grade 9, was believed to have travelled from Mdantsane. It is alleged that the taxi driver was overtaking a truck on Gonubie Main road when he lost control of the vehicle. The taxi rolled across the road to the opposite lane before landing on its side. Nine pupils sustained minor injuries. Six were hospitalised at Life Beacon Bay and Frere hospitals. The rest were collected by the school bus and dropped at school for class. Department of education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said the department was waiting for reports from the hospitals detailing the extent of the injuries. “Most of the pupils got away with scratches and bruises. “We can confirm that five of the six pupils have already been discharged.” He said: “Pupils who will be missing exams due to injuries will definitely be allowed to [sit] special exams.”— nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za Pupils travelling to Gonubie High School yesterday morning had a lucky escape, sustaining only minor injuries, when the taxi they were travelling in lost control and overturned. The taxi, carrying 16 pupils, 14 of them in Grade 8 and two in Grade 9, was believed to have travelled from Mdantsane.… November 15, 2017 In "News" Three people, including an East London high school pupil, died in three separate accidents reported by provincial traffic authorities yesterday. In East London, police are investigating a case of culpable homicide after a minibus taxi transporting pupils overturned on the N2 near Hemingways. One child died. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki… January 28, 2015 In "Metro" Four prison inmates were seriously injured when the bakkie in which they were travelling veered off the road and crashed into the bottom of a ravine yesterday morning. The accident happened on the N2 between East London and Komga around 9am. Deputy regional commissioner for correctional services in the province… November 27, 2015 In "News"