East London police are investigating a case of murder after a taxi operator was found dead in his taxi in the East London CBD. The 34-year-old victim was apparently transporting people from the beachfront to Tsholomnqa when the incident allegedly happened. Confirming the incident to DispatchLIVE, police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala said the taxi belonged to Melta Taxi Association. “The incident happened at Terminus Street in East London where the victim, believed to be 34 years old was found dead inside the taxi on Sunday morning. He had a gun wound in his face,” said Mqala. “The victim is said to have loaded people from the Motsepe Festival function in the beachfront at about 10am on Saturday and was on his way to Tsholomnqa,” said Mqala. It is said that the keys of the taxi were found not far from the vehicle and allegations are that the suspect might have been killed somewhere before he was dumped in East London CBD but Mqala would not confirm that. “Those are just speculation from the people. The investigation continues on this case and it will be treated as such, as a murder case. If anyone has more information, they must feel free to come and tell the police about it,” said Mqala. Another taxi boss was shot and killed in the Eastern Cape last night, becoming the 35th death in taxi wars raging in the province since 2015. The victim, believed to be from East London’s Amalinda suburb, was affiliated to the Mdantsane Uncedo Services Taxi Association (Mdusta). The shooting took place… June 27, 2017 In "Featured" Another Eastern Cape taxi operator has been gunned down in cold blood outside his own home. Xolile Baliso, 44, was shot and left for dead as he arrived at his Mdantsane home from an out-of-town trip. Baliso is the first operator to be killed in 2017 in a raging taxi war… January 6, 2017 In "Featured" By BONGANI FUZILE and MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI An Eastern Cape taxi mogul and peace activist is in critical condition after being gunned down outside his house yesterday morning. Mxolisi Sontshantsha, who owns several taxis and buses in East London that run both locally and across the province, is a former member of… November 14, 2016 In "Featured"