The eagerly awaited annual Berlin November horse race is taking centre stage this weekend and once again has teamed up with the Eastern Cape Gambling and Betting Board (ECGBB) in an effort to promote responsible gambling. ECGBB CEO Mabutho Zwane said: “As the Eastern Cape Gambling and Betting Board we have a shared moral responsibility to drive brand awareness and education about responsible gambling through creating a presence on strategic platforms such as the Berlin November in order for us to engage and connect with our target audiences in an intriguing and positive way. The board was a “primary partner of the Berlin November Traditional Horse racing event”, he added. “Each year, we have a different theme, with this year’s theme being ‘take action against excessive and irresponsible gambling’. “We hope that out of the campaign, we will provide an understanding to our punters that we need to minimise the harmful effects of excessive gambling,” said Zwane. “It is important to note that there is no gambling or betting allowed at the Berlin November.” The board hopes its message gets out loud and clear, and that with the festive season getting into the swing of things, it comes at the ideal time. The Berlin November gets under way on Saturday morning, offering a full and varied day of festivities, events, food and drink to entertain visitors and spectators. Traditional horse-racing is just weeks away as the annual Berlin November is once again ready to light up the track in Berlin. Once again a major force in making the event successful is the strong partnership between the Eastern Cape Gambling and Betting Board (ECGBB), the Department of Sport, Recreation,… November 12, 2015 In "Sport" It is all systems go for the Berlin November Handicap race 2016 edition. And for the first time in the past three editions of its history, this year the race will see female jockeys taking part. This was announced by Berlin November owner Luthando Bara at a press conference held at… October 21, 2016 In "Sport" The biggest horse-racing extravaganza in the Eastern Cape is back on the horizon and just over a month away as the annual Berlin November Traditional Horse-Racing Handicap prepares for another blockbuster display. It will be the fourth edition of the increasingly popular event and it is set to be bigger… October 18, 2017 In "Sport"