Authorities on Tuesday morning attached the bakkie of a Fort Beaufort farmer accused of stealing cattle. Members of the Asset Forfeiture Unit in East London and police detectives were acting on a Grahamstown High Court order that the vehicle – a 2014 Isuzu 300 bakkie valued at R200 000 – be attached and auctioned, and the proceeds thereof used to fight crime. The bakkie, which has a trailer, belongs to Fort Beaufort resident Hendrik Josephus Roux and was allegedly used to steal four cattle belonging to Simbongile Dayimani in a nearby village in 2015. While the civil case was concluded at the Grahamstown High Court last week, the criminal case at the Fort Beaufort Magistrate’s Court is yet to be finalised. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman Tshepo Ndwalaza said Roux’s father, Hendrik Snr, was found in possession of the bakkie on Tuesday in town where he was doing shopping. “Officials informed him of the court decision and he did not resist handing over the vehicle. All he asked for was for us to escort him home so that he could offload the stuff he bought in town. “We did that and when we got to his house, he handed over the keys to the vehicle. We searched for the trailer but we could not find it. We informed him that we would be back at a later stage to fetch it,” Ndwalaza said. He said the bakkie was transported to East London to be kept in storage. “An auction will be held where the bakkie will be sold. “The proceeds will be deposited in the criminal assets recovery account to bolster law enforcement.” Ndwalaza said the accused was still being prosecuted in the Fort Beaufort Magistrate’s Court. Fort Beaufort farmer Hendrik Josephus Roux has lost his bakkie and trailer to the state. The Grahamstown High Court this week ordered that the farmer's properties be sold and the money be used to fight crime. This after Roux was arrested after he allegedly stole four cattle belonging to Fort… November 10, 2017 In "News" Some R105000 has been forfeited to the Asset Forfeiture Unit (AFU) after drugs and a stash of cash were found at a man’s Parkside home last year. The Grahamstown High Court granted the forfeiture order this week. Elite crime fighting unit the Hawks searched Ralph Joseph’s house in Buffalo Flats… January 14, 2016 In "News" A married couple accused of defrauding the Twelve Apostles Church in Christ of R7.09-million appeared briefly in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday on 53 counts of fraud. Zola Maziyana, who is also president of the South African Social Practitioners’ Union (Saspu), and his wife Zukiswa also face 123 counts… June 24, 2015 In "News"