By Adriaan Basson and Pieter du Toit December 2015 was not a good month for the Zuptas. The “silent coup” to capture the National Treasury using Dawid Des van Rooyen and his Gupta-linked advisers had boomeranged and the campaign to install a Zuma-friendly fiscus was back to square one. The notion that the state was being captured was strengthening in people’s minds as more evidence emerged of how President Jacob Zuma and the Guptas planned to take control of public spending. Playing the victim role he so loves, Zuma would later tell his supporters how “monopoly capital and their stooges” had attacked him, and how they had fired Van Rooyen and reappointed Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. Months after he removed Van Rooyen after his three-day spell as finance minister, Zuma continued to defend him. The Zuptas needed a fightback plan – and they needed it fast. It was well-known at the time that Van Rooyen’s predecessor, Nhlanhla Nene, had refused to sign a guarantee for procuring nuclear power – most likely from Russia’s Rosatom – at a cost of R1-trillion, which would have bankrupted South Africa. The Guptas and Duduzane Zuma, through their shareholding in Shiva Uranium, stood to benefit handsomely from supplying uranium to the new nuclear plants. With Gordhan, the disciplinarian, back at the Treasury, there was absolutely no chance Zuma, his son or their friends would ride roughshod through finance-management legislation, budgets and common sense. They needed Gordhan out and a new narrative that would counter the rapidly unfolding revelation of state capture at the highest level. Enter Bell Pottinger. Co-founded by former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher’s public-relations adviser, Lord Timothy Bell, the PR firm had gained a notorious reputation for its “dark arts” campaigns for dubious clients. Some of the people whose images were polished by Bell Pottinger over the years include Belarusian president Aleksandr Lukashenko, known as Europe’s last dictator; Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet and the ruling Assad family of Syria. And, in October last year, the UK’s Bureau of Investigative Journalism revealed how Bell Pottinger had set up a top-secret propaganda programme in Iraq for the US military and the CIA, which included producing false-news videos. Closer to home, Bell Pottinger advised FW de Klerk during the 1994 election and had contacts with political parties in Zambia, Malawi, Kenya and Nigeria. Details about how the PR firm was introduced to the Zuptas are sketchy, but a former employee told the Sunday Times that contacts had been made “by a gentleman called Fana”. The “Fana” he referred to is Fana Hlongwane, the so-called “arms deal playboy” who was at the heart of South Africa’s controversial armaments transaction with a number of European companies, including British Aerospace (now called BAE Systems). During the arms deal, Hlongwane, who has a penchant for pretty women and fast cars, was a special adviser to Joe Modise, then defence minister. At the same time, he received commissions from BAE front companies totalling tens of millions of rands. BAE Systems was awarded the contract to supply 24 Hawk jet trainers to the South African Air Force. Although Hlongwane, who is close to the ANC, has been named in numerous investigations into the arms deal, he has never been charged. He denied any wrongdoing in his evidence before the Seriti Commission in 2015. Those in the know say Hlongwane had “repositioned” himself after the arms deal fallout and made inroads into the Zupta network, with a particular focus on befriending Duduzane Zuma. While Hlongwane was a BAE agent during the arms-deal years, his paths would have crossed those of Christopher Vincent Geoghegan, a BAE veteran and board member until his resignation in 2007. And so the story goes: Chris Geoghegan introduced Hlongwane to his daughter, Victoria, who was a partner at Bell Pottinger. Hlongwane introduced Victoria Geoghegan to the Guptas and she became the lead partner on the Oakbay/Gupta account – at a fee of £100 000 (about R2.3-million at the time) a month for the account. The well-educated Victoria oversaw arguably the most destructive campaign in the PR firm’s scandal-ridden history – one that would eventually claim her career and reputation. Interestingly, the Gupta leaks show that Hlongwane was in Dubai in December 2015, at the same time that a flurry of South African ministers and civil servants descended on the desert city to meet the Guptas. Was this a gathering of the wounded, after Van Rooyen’s short-lived tenure at the Treasury? Hlongwane checked into Dubai’s Oberoi Hotel on December 16 2015 and paid the hotel bill of Ayanda Dlodlo, the communications minister, who was staying at the hotel at the same time. A month later, Victoria Geoghegan, Lord Bell and other Bell Pottinger staff jetted into Johannesburg to meet Duduzane Zuma and the Guptas. A secret intelligence report, released by the SACP (who had since asked President Zuma to step down) in April this year, claimed that he had attended a meeting with Bell Pottinger, so that he could explain to the PR team “the priorities of the project as he saw them, as well as to outline any other communication request that he might like them to focus on”. The author of the report is unknown, but it quotes a former Bell Pottinger partner as its source. Zuma has not confirmed attending such a meeting and it could not be independently verified that he did. According to this “former partner”, Zuma asked Bell Pottinger to help Duduzane clean up his reputation and for communication assistance “to create an environment which would be advantageous to enabling his ex-wife, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, to replace him as leader of the ANC when the time was right”. The Gupta leaks show that on January 19 2016, Geoghegan sent the young Zuma a gushing e-mail, thanking him for “sparing us so much time”. This correspondence reveals the original, formal aim and purpose of the fightback campaign. “Bell Pottinger is keen to build a long-term partnership with you and the South African team. We want to stand shoulder to shoulder in communicating such a vital message for South Africa. The future of the country in terms of fair economic growth, an inclusive society and political stability, depends on it,” Geoghegan wrote to Zuma, attaching a document to her e-mail, in which she detailed the focus of that long-term partnership. “1994 was a seminal year in South Africa’s history,” she wrote at the beginning of the document. ‘The peaceful handover of power raised the hopes of many, and the expectation of imminent political and economic enfranchisement was justified. “The reality is that whilst political freedom has been attained there is a feeling that expectations of economic empowerment have not been met, with the wealth of South Africa sitting within a small grouping.” Up to this point, few South Africans would argue with her: her words could have been lifted from a DA pamphlet. Geoghegan went on to explain that economic empowerment was the “next big key issue” facing South Africa, “expressed to us in emotive language using phrases such as ’economic apartheid’ and ‘economic emancipation’.’’ And then the sting: Zuma is blamed for “almost all of South Africa’s ills”; there was a need for a new campaign that focused on “economic emancipation”. Effectively, they had to create a scapegoat for South Africa’s woes that wasn’t Zuma or the ANC. Although the phrase isn’t mentioned in these early documents, the result of this was the birth of the WMC – white monopoly capital – campaign. Geoghegan warned, however, that this shouldn’t look like a “Mugabe-style programme of asset seizure” because “then it is all South Africans who will suffer”. Geoghegan, one editor quipped, almost started to style herself as “South Africa’s new Mandela”. It seems that the irony was completely lost on her that she was not sitting with the leader of a small, oppressed opposition party but with the son of South Africa’s president, who had been in power for seven years at the time of their meeting. For at least 20 years, Jacob Zuma had been in powerful positions in the ANC and government, during which time he could have had a meaningful impact on economic development and policy. Instead, he chose to enrich himself and his family by using his power and influence in exchange for financial benefits from opportunistic benefactors. In the case of Nkandla, money was literally diverted from building houses for South Africans to building a palace for the president and his family. Enemy of the People – How Jacob Zuma stole South Africa and How the People Fought Back (Jonathan Ball Publishers) by Adriaan Basson and Pieter du Toit is available at good bookstores nationwide. Both authors are award-winning political journalists. Basson was last year appointed editor of News24 and Du Toit, also last year, deputy editor of the newly launched Huffington Post South Africa Cellphone evidence placing Des van Rooyen at the Guptas’ home the night before former finance minister Nhlanla Nene was sacked feature in his second application to interdict the release of former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s state capture report. News that the cooperative governance minister was making a fresh attempt to… October 31, 2016 In "Politics" Former finance minister David van Rooyen has revealed he was as shocked as the rest of South Africa when President Jacob Zuma told him he would replace Nhlanhla Nene. "The truth is I was a bit taken aback," Van Rooyen told the Sunday Times in an interview this week. "Being… March 13, 2016 In "News" The ANC’s top six officials had told President Jacob Zuma that short-lived finance minister Des van Rooyen was a “lightweight” for the prized national treasury job.  This is according to ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, who told a gathering at the University of Fort Hare that the party’s top officials were… April 15, 2016 In "News"