What started as a naughty schoolboy prank has become a lifelong obsession for Coca-Cola memorabilia collector Peter Bruton, who has 8500 branded items in his Beacon Bay home.  A large round enamel Coke sign, which he “saved” from a Cambridge corner café in 1970 when he was 15, kicked off the collection, which now takes up most of his lounge and is worth close to R1-million. “When I was growing up, boys would throw stones at signs like this and chip the enamel, but I saved this one and it is in perfect condition, and it is still the piece I value most.” So enormous is his collection of the iconic soft-drink paraphernalia that he has not even seen some of it. “I bought a box from a guy who was selling his Coke collection in order to pay for an operation four years ago, but I still haven’t opened it,” said Bruton, 62, who has Coke items stored away in several crates in his house and garage. “I don’t have the space to display all of it.” While his concentrated red and white display threatens to overwhelm the senses, Bruton dreams of liberating his collectables from the confines of his home to display them in a spacious, well-designed museum. “I have more and more schools and old age homes coming to visit me and I’m itching to have a Coke museum once I secure a venue and permission from Coca-Cola. My collection is already a tourist attraction, so I might as well open a museum,” he said. His lounge, which doubles up as office space for his large-format printing business, contains an antique pharmacy display cabinet crammed with little cars, glasses, vintage bottle openers, belt buckles, lighters, candle holders, rugby balls, menu holders, salt and pepper cellars and a hot dog holder, all emblazoned with the unmistakable red and white brand name. A pelmet is lined with dozens of plastic Coke sip bottles, a wall is devoted to Coke trays – some vintage, some new – and a bar area is crammed with mugs, yo-yos and clocks. Even the fireplace is studded with the remarkable collection. Once the large enamel Coke sign was installed above his bed, the collection bug bit and the teenaged Bruton started feverishly amassing any Coke goods he could lay his hands on. The oldest piece he has is a National Geographic magazine Coke advert from 1927 and the most valuable is his sign which kicked off his collection and which is now worth about R8000. Bruton still trawls auctions every week hoping to land more treasures. “This is like an addiction, but I’m proud of it.” — barbarah@dispatch. co.za The year was 1970 and a young East London resident by the name of Peter Bruton stood in front of an enamel Coca-Cola sign outside a corner shop in Cambridge to protect it from stone-throwing vandals. This brave act was the start of his obsession with the Coke brand. “I… January 24, 2015 In "Metro" Former Border semi-professional captain Abongile Sodumo is thriving in his new career of umpiring after retiring from playing in 2015. Sodumo, a wicketkeeper batsman, who represented Border, Eastern Province and the Warriors over a playing career that spanned more than a decade, played 104 first-class matches, 73 List A games… April 1, 2017 In "Sport" Coca-Cola secretly funded media training on obesity at a US university to influence journalists to report that a lack of exercise was more likely to cause obesity than consuming sugar. This has emerged thanks to an independent investigation with findings published in the British Medical Journal (BMJ). Coca-Cola’s secret funding… April 11, 2017 In "News"