The Democratic Alliance (DA) says Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe’s resignation is a step towards a new beginning for the country. “While Mugabe’s resignation is the first step towards a new beginning for Zimbabwe‚ it is not the silver bullet that will fix the country. Mugabe may be gone‚ but the ruling ZANU-PF remains‚” DA leader Mmusi Maimane said. “The story of Robert Mugabe is not a unique one‚ and is all too familiar on our continent. A once liberator of his people‚ Mugabe brought division‚ instability‚ and economic ruin to Zimbabwe as he made the unfortunate transition from liberator to dictator.” He said the people of Zimbabwe must be given the opportunity to go to the polls and elect a new president. “The only way forward for Zimbabwe is for fresh elections to be held immediately. “As Chairperson of the Southern African Partnership for Democratic Change (SAPDC)‚ I have engaged with the opposition in Zimbabwe on a number of occasions‚ and it is clear that the only way forward is for free and fair elections to be held as soon as possible.” He called on the Southern African Development Community (SADC) to take the lead in ensuring an interim government is put in place and that elections are held as soon as possible. -TimesLIVE Source: TMG Digital.  President Robert Mugabe must step down so that free and fair elections can be held immediately‚ Mmusi Maimane‚ leader of South Africa’s official opposition Democratic Alliance‚ said on Wednesday — as he urged Pretoria to dump its quiet diplomacy approach towards its near neighbour. “The current instability in Zimbabwe must… November 15, 2017 In "Politics" It is so tempting to jump up with joy and ululate with the oppressed people of Zimbabwe. For decades they have been brutalised by the oppressive regime of Robert Mugabe. On Saturday, as millions of jubilant Zimbabweans flooded the streets of Harare and other centres, hugging soldiers and thanking them… November 20, 2017 In "Opinion" By KATHARINE CHILD, TIMESLIVE, REUTERS, JAMES THOMPSON, RAY NDLOVU, AND NICO GOUS The end of an era that saw the extremes of both liberation and tyranny has arrived in southern Africa as Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe, 93, falls from power. Mugabe was removed by his Zanu-PF ruling party as its… November 20, 2017 In "Featured"