A FARM worker has laid assault charges against a Silvermist farmer who allegedly beat him with a knobkerrie for not closing a water reservoir tightly enough at the farm on the N6. Mark Bursey also allegedly called Thabo Panda the K-word and threatened to shoot him and dump him in a bush if he argued.Panda sustained severe injuries on his right arm when he was allegedly assaulted by Bursey.However, the farmer denied laying a finger on Panda, saying he had in fact been kicked by a cow .The 21-year-old Panda told the Daily Dispatch he almost lost his life at the hands of Bursey.On what seemed to be a normal work day, the farmer picked up his workers on the freeway and drove to his farm with the workers on the back of his bakkie.Panda said the farmer then stopped next to the leaking water reservoir close to his farm gates and asked who had not closed it tightly the previous day, which they all denied.Panda claims the farmer picked him out from among the other workers and blamed him for not closing the reservoir. He told me not to argue because I am a monkey and a k****r . He threatened to shoot me and dump me in the forest if I argued with him. He then attacked me at the back of the bakkie, but I was scared to walk away. I climbed back on his bakkie and he drove off through the farm gates. As I jumped off the bakkie, the farmer had his knobkerrie out and was aiming for my head. I managed to block him with my arm and he then went for my ribs. The 21-year-old is the sole breadwinner at his home and has worked at the farm for over a year as a general worker, earning R124 a day. The farmer said I deserved to be killed and went inside his house to get his big, long gun. I ran for my life to hide at a nearby farm, said Panda.Panda is living in fear, frightened the farmer will find him and kill him.Bursey threatened the reporter that there would be serious consequences if the story was published. The worker broke my water reservoir. I have since opened a case against him. I opened it today. I distance myself from his injuries. He was kicked by a cow, he said.King William s Town police spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa confirmed that a case of common assault has been registered at the Kei Road police station . The victim was assaulted on his arm at Silvermist Farm. Police have not arrested the suspect yet, as they are busy compiling witness statements before they arrest the right suspect, said Mawisa.She could not confirm whether or not Bursey had opened a case against Panda. sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za