A Mdantsane man who claims that an eyewitness to last week s rape and double murder horror cleared him of any suspicion, said residents at a community meeting had resolved to kill him. Mbulelo Matye, 35, from Mdantsane s NU7 said: They passed a resolution to kill me. He said he was mistaken for a murderer and rapist responsible for the bodies of two women that were found in the bush on Wednesday.Matye told Saturday Dispatch he was rescued by the police from a mob on Thursday.But he said an eyewitness to the killings told the police he looked nothing like the suspect.Matye said his release from police custody had sparked fresh anger from the community.A picture of Matye was being spread on social media, with people in his community calling on residents to kill him, he said.After his release on Thursday evening, he went into hiding.He said it all started on Thursday afternoon when he was apprehended by police while leaving a friend s place in NU2. The police told me they suspected me of being behind the killings and were taking me in for questioning. They took me to my home in NU7 to search my wardrobe to see if I had clothes that matched the ones of the alleged killer. Matye said after his home was searched, the police apologised and said he was free to go.He then asked the police to give him a lift to the Highway shopping area.When he got out the police vehicle he was mobbed by angry residents. They were angry and confused to see me there. A light-skinned guy and two tsotsis that I know from NU2 asked me to get inside a silver grey bakkie and when I refused they grabbed me by my belt and shoved me inside. Matye said the men took him to NU2 and called the community for a short meeting before they started stoning him. They passed a resolution to kill me saying that their children were not safe with me around them and that the police dropped the ball. Matye said it took two police vans and a minibus taxi full of police to rescue him from the violent crowd. If it wasn t for the back-up of the minibus taxi, I would have died there. My friend, whom I had visited in NU2 at the time when I was taken there by the police, was also assaulted and his shack was set alight. Matye said he would open a case against the residents and the police for allegedly roughing him up during the house search.Matye said he had suffered bruises on his body and wounds on his head.Cambridge police spokesman captain Mluleki Mbi said Matye should open a case against anyone involved in the alleged assault.Mbi denied the police assaulted Matye.