Four months after an Eastern Cape factory started operating, it now manufactures 10000 toilet rolls a day and supplies one of the biggest retail stores in the province. Red Ribbon, a 100% black- and youth-owned factory, was officially opened by economic development MEC Sakhumzi Somyo in Ngcamgeni village between King William s Town and Alice.Owned by Matisetso Mosie, 27, and Tankiso Mosie, 24, the two started operating the factory from a garage at their home in 2014 before receiving a R2.5-million cash injection from the provincial government last year.Their new factory was then built and they began operating in February, supplying Nicks Foods Spar chainstores with their Red Ribbon toilet paper.Talks are ongoing on supplying Pick n Pay and Pep Stores.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch at the event yesterday, Matisetso said they had always dreamt of opening a factory that would produce unique products. When the idea of producing toilet paper came up, we did not hesitate. Among other things, we were looking for a business that would be sustainable and toilet paper is a necessity for every household, she said, adding that getting the business started was a challenge as they had struggled to access funding.Tankiso said competing with well-known and established brands was still a challenge. With the research we have done, we have established that other businesses have the capacity to control where they get their raw material, which makes them drop the prices. We are learning as we go. We have managed to create jobs for villagers at Ngcamgeni, employing at least 14 permanent staff and a number of casual workers, he said.The R2.5-million from Somyo s department was used to build the factory and buy machinery including a forklift and a brand new Ford Ranger bakkie and trailer to assist with transportation logistics of the product from the factory to the markets.Reviving factories is part of a government strategy to grow the economy and fight unemployment.Somyo said the reason why young entrepreneurs in the Eastern Cape were not getting funding was that they were failing to compile convincing business plans. There is over R100-million set aside for youth development. My department, in partnership with the Eastern Cape department of economic development, is going around the province educating young people on how they can access these funds for their businesses. We have started in Port Alfred and are expecting to go to greater parts of the province, he said. sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za