An unemployed disabled Mthatha woman will finally move out of a prefabricated structure into her own, newly built RDP house, thanks to efforts by her traditional leader and the government. Nomalanga Ndamase, 37, on Tuesday received the keys to her freshly painted house after years of waiting.In April, the Daily Dispatch reported that Ndamase was one of the beneficiaries of a department of human settlements project that seeks to eradicate temporary structures and replace them with permanent brick houses.But, speaking to the Dispatch on Tuesday, a week ahead of the official handover of the house, Ndamase said she had not expected her house to be completed so quickly. I was not expecting the house to be completed now. We always hear people say the government never keeps promises or that government work is slow, she said. I thought that would happen [to me], but they worked fast and within a month we could see the progress. That has made me feel really important. Ndamase lives with her two children and life partner. The family survives on social grants.The 37-year-old developed polio as an infant, which left her completely paralysed and deformed from the knees down.As a result, she was never able to attend school.She has spent most of her adult life renting accommodation, which meant a lot of moving around with her children.Ndamase said her fortunes changed for the better when she met New Payne traditional leader Bishop Vuyisile Plaatjie, who gave her a plot and put up a temporary structure for her. The house has been built in the same yard.She said it still felt like she was dreaming. It will only sink in when I finally move in next week .Provincial human settlements spokesman Lwandile Sicwetsha said the department was waiting for minor finishing touches like floor tiles to be completed in time for the handover.The Dispatch had a quick tour of the two-bedroom house, which also has a lounge and kitchen, and even a filled-up water tank outside.The house has already been electrified.Ndamase said she liked the accessibility of the house. They definitely had me in mind when they built this house because I can get to the toilet and tank easily, she said. It was a real problem before because the toilet was too far from the house. My children are looking forward to having their own room now, and me my privacy. 