Business in Buffalo City s automotive, agricultural and manufacturing sector which do not prepare for future technological disruptors like robots and 3D printing may be left behind and become unsustainable. That s according to sector manager of renewable energy and information, communications and technology (ICT) at the East London Industrial Development Zone (ELIDZ), Chris Ettmayr, who will be one of the keynote speakers at the Daily Dispatch Strategic Business Summit at the Venue in Hemingways next Thursday.Ettmayr, who is an economist by profession, said the gist of his presentation would be to inform businesses about the strategies they should take to align themselves with changes to come. I will paint a picture of what the future looks like and what future customers will demand. He said many Buffalo City businesses were traditional in terms of structure, corporate governance and their ICT systems. But at the IDZ we see a lot of new innovations and system developments which are highly applicable to businesses in this province.Ettmayr said the IDZ s science and technology park was developing many apps that companies could use to optimise business practises. They look at ways for production processes to have less wastage because a lot of waste can be re-purposed instead of being dumped. He said the IDZ was in the process of developing a programme that would show how to convert plastic waste into waxes, lubricants and solvents. So instead of paying someone to pick it up and transport it to a landfill, they can actually sell it. It puts a value on their waste. The IDZ was also completing a carbon footprint assessment of businesses in the zone. There is no industry standard yet so there is no benchmark, but at least we can start implementing strategies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Other keynote speakers include former deputy minister of finance Mcebisi Jonas, political analyst, columnist and The Justice Factor presenter Justice Malala, economist Dawie Roodt, business adviser and small business investor Zipho Sikhakhane, political analyst and author, Daniel Silke, University of Fort Hare vice-chancellor Sakhela Buhlungu, trend and business analyst John Sanei and labour lawyer Jonathan Goldberg.l Bookings for the Daily Dispatch Strategic Business Summit which will be held at the Venue, Hemingways from 8.30am to 3.30pm next Thursday can be made by calling 043-702-2064 or by e-mailing bookings@dispatch.co.za. Tickets cost R2000 and include lunch and refreshments. barbarah@dispatch.co.za