Two initiates were killed when their initiation hut caught fire at a village near Qumbu in the early hours of yesterday. This brings the death toll to four since the winter initiation season was launched in East London last week.Meanwhile, two illegal traditional surgeons are on the run from East London police after it was discovered they were operating an illegal initiation school, charging R750 per initiate in Scenery Park.Mthatha police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the two initiates who died in the fire were aged 18 and 19. Their initiation hut, which housed 25 youths, was found burning at Ntabazigogo village in the Sulenkama administrative area near Qumbu. At the moment we do not know what happened. Some of the initiates were rushed to hospital in Mthatha. Police are investigating the cause of the fire, which occurred at about 6am, said Fatyela yesterday.Confirming the deaths, OR Tambo Traditional Initiation District Forum chairman Nkosi Gcobani Tyali said 23 initiates had been injured in the fire. The deaths are not associated with botched circumcisions or other related problems like illtreatment of initiates, Tyali said. According to information received, the two died after their lodge caught fire. According to the new laws regulating traditional initiation in the Eastern Cape, only boys aged 18 and above may legitimately undergo the rite. We understand that it was a legal initiation school, but if police say there were initiates [there] aged under 18 years, those who signed for the establishment of the initiation school Tyali said.He said the death of the two youths brought the death toll in the O R Tambo district, an area that is always problematic in winter, to three. We send our condolences to the families of those who died and pray for the speedy recovery of those injured. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said that last week 11 illegal surgeons and traditional nurses had been arrested in Libode and Ngqeleni.He said that to minimise the risk of death in the bush, the health department had set aside R13-million for hiring extra personnel, such as nurses, doctors and monitoring officials, who would be visiting initiation schools on a regular basis.He said 35 4x4s had been hired for monitoring, and the teams were working with police and traditional leaders.Cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) MEC Fikile Xasa will visit initiation schools in the O R Tambo district today. The visit will focus on the hot spot areas of Ngqeleni and Qumbu, where deaths have been reported thus far. We send our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families and their relatives, said Xasa. We remain determined to implement the Male Initiation Practice Act without fear or favour to protect life and limb. Those operating illegally have already been arrested and will face the full might of the law. Cogta spokesman Mamnkeli Ngam said so far six traditional surgeons had been arrested in Mhlontlo, Ngqeleni, Buffalo City Metro and Mbhashe.In BCM, three people have also been arrested in Ndevana for assisting in an illegal circumcision. additional reporting Zwanga Mukhuthu