An Eastern Cape male teacher under investigation by the department of education for allegedly posting lewd comments about female pupils in his class on Facebook, claims his Facebook account was hacked. On Thursday, mathematics teacher Bruce Zolani Quza, of Ntsika Senior Secondary School in Grahamstown, posted on his Facebook account that female pupils in his class sat with their legs spread apart, flashing their private parts at him.The 27-year-old Quza further wrote that even though he had tried to change his position in the class, the pupils still did it. MOER what must I do now! he apparently wrote. The posts were removed from his Facebook page yesterday.During a telephone interview yesterday, Quza said his account was hacked and someone was posting the comments using his account. I m being abused by someone and this has really put a strain on me. I get calls from people telling me about this thing. Quza also denied allegations made on social media that he is having affairs with at least five pupils, adding he would never do such a thing.Quza s post sparked widespread criticism on social media, and what shocked Facebook users even more were the comments on the post.One of Quza s Facebook friends comment read: You must drink Old Brown Sherry and show them who s boss .Another friend said Quza should ask the pupils to open their legs wider.Quza said this was the third time his Facebook account had been hacked.Quza holds a BSC degree and a BA degree in philosophy and psychology from Rhodes University.In statement issued yesterday, education head Themba Kojana said: I condemn in the strongest terms this predatory conduct by this educator as it embarrasses and taints the teaching profession. As such I have instituted an immediate investigation into the said allegations. I ve also asked our legal section to investigate the legal ramifications of his conduct as a civil servant, said Kojana.The department s spokesman, Malibongwe Mtima, said a team of investigators were sent to the school yesterday.