&nbsp;A day before she was murdered, allegedly by her husband, an East London mother of two obtained an interim protection order against him. This emerged during a formal bail application by the self-employed husband, Xolile Ndoti, 34, in the East London Magistrate s Court yesterday.Ndoti has been charged with the murder of his 31-year-old wife, Ncediswa Rolome.Magistrate Nazeem Joemath heard the murder took place on Saturday June 10 in Duncan Village.On June 9, Rolome visited her matrimonial home in Needs Camp in the company of police to hand her husband a copy of the protection order, which he then signed.State prosecutor Thulani Solani argued for bail not to be granted.Ndoti told the court on the night in question he had gone in search of his wife in Duncan Village, where she was staying with her mother, to plead with her because I loved her . When I got there I was told by her mother that she is not around. I then went next door to knock and I was told to enter. As I entered I found my wife seated with two men, who began assaulting me until I bled from the head. I then reached on top of the table and found a knife. My eyes were covered with blood and I stabbed the person who was closest to me. Later I realised I had stabbed my wife, so I ran out to search for a vehicle to take her to hospital. When I came back to the scene I was assaulted by a large group of people and I fled to a relative in Braelyn, where I explained what had happened. Under cross-examination, Solani read out the conditions laid out in the protection order, and then asked: Why did you go look for her? Ndoti replied: I went to plead with her and to find out more information about the protection order. But did you not sign it, Solani asked, to which the murder accused admitted that he had signed it.Joemath then asked: Why did you not respect the court order? I knew what I did was wrong. I was pleading to be back with her because I love her, Ndoti told the magistrate.The court heard that the couple s two daughters, aged five and 10, were living with their grandmother.The bail application continues today. zwangam@dispatch.co.za