It was while on a quest for a good-looking beard that East London resident John Dunn started his business. After deciding to grow his beard long, Dunn said he struggled with dry, itchy skin underneath which no available beard products could fix.Dunn said he confided in his wife and together they began experimenting with a variety of natural oils to create the perfect concoction. After a few months, Dunn said they finally managed to create an oil which took away the itchiness and made his beard look and smell great.The year was 2016 and his first beard oil, Spurgeon, was born. His company, Beardified, was registered soon afterwards.After noticing the positive effects the oil had on his beard, the business owner said he tapped into his personal funds to create more, which was sold to the public.Beardified grew from there and now sells a total of three oils as well as beard balms, moustache waxes and wooden combs. My wife and I realised that we had created something great and we could sell it to other men who had beards or who were wanting to grow a beard. We also knew that beards were becoming more and more popular and beard care was a very good business niche to go into, Dunn said. We had some money saved up, so we used our personal funds to inject into Beardified. The name Beardified is a play on the word beautified . When a lady puts on make-up we say that she has been beautified. When a bearded man puts on our products we say he has been beardified. We currently have three beard oils: Spurgeon, Calvin and Knox. Spurgeon, which is our first oil, has a sweet woody smell whereas Calvin has an earthy smell.Knox is for those men who want an unscented oil. We also sell beard balms, moustache waxes and wooden combs with other exciting products such as beard wash and hair clay on the way. According to Dunn, beard oils have become popular as many men started realising the need for beard grooming. A beard is still frowned upon in many professional or corporate work environments because many men who have beards don t keep their beards neat and tidy. Therefore, if you work in a professional or corporate work environment you have to make sure that your beard is well groomed. Applying beard oil to your beard makes it look healthy and also helps to style it a bit better. Even if you don t work in a professional environment, your beard still needs to be looked after. The reason is that the soaps and shampoos you use strip away your beard s natural oils and also the chemicals in those soaps and shampoos damage your hair and skin.Your diet is also most likely lacking many nutrients that make your hair healthy. Our oils replace those nutrients that have been lost and makes your beard grow stronger and thicker, Dunn said. The best product to use to style your beard is our beard balm which offers many of the health benefits of the beard oil and a slightly softer hold than our moustache wax. Dunn, who runs his business from home, said he also offered online shopping. Consumers can also order via the Beardified Facebook page. zisandan@dispatch.co.za