Eastern Cape police have 4713 vehicles meant to cover 196 stations 500 more than they are supposed to have but many of these are stuck in government garages awaiting minor maintenance issues or repairs. This contributes to slow police response times at crime scenes as they complain of a shortage of vehicles.This state of affairs was sharply criticised by provincial police commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga while handing over 27 new vehicles at various police stations earlier this week. I want to make a point clear: that the misuse of state vehicles will not be tolerated. Criminal and internal disciplinary investigations will be opened and investigated against those who are suspected of misusing state vehicles, the top cop said. Those responsible will be held accountable for the costs incurred or loss experienced by the state due to their actions or lack of. Ntshinga said garage managers were increasingly reporting cases of police officers dumping vehicles without the correct paperwork being completed. This resulted in a backlog of cars that could have easily been fixed.To address this, the provincial transport department has partnered with the national Department of Higher Education and Training to use electrical and mechanical engineering students from Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET) colleges to help fix vehicles at state garages.Yesterday at the police provincial head offices in Zwelitsha, transport MEC Weziwe Tikana said vehicles were piling up at state garages because they needed authorisation from Pretoria for even the most minor maintenance issues.Now, with the students roped in, the province had decentralised this as future electrical and mechanical engineers had been roped in to fix minor maintenance problems. For example, currently even the changing of a battery or a tyre cannot happen without the long process of waiting for a signature from Pretoria while police sit without cars, she said.Tikana said 6000 students were already in the database of the Office of the Premier to begin work in government garages.Of the 6000, 194 students had been earmarked to work at police garages. The 194 were in addition to last year s intake of 106, the MEC said. Another batch will arrive on Monday. Tikana said roping in electrical and mechanical engineering students would not only help her department effectively fight crime, but would equip students with skills and work experience, which would make them more employable. This in turn would contribute to fighting unemployment.Speaking about the newly handed over cars, which include 14 Golf GTIs and nine BMW 320s, Tikana said: These vehicles will increase police visibility, especially for the flying squad and highway patrol, and improve police reaction time with car hijackings and robberies, both residential and non-residential. We are committed to building an Eastern Cape free of crime. 