A man believed to be the murderer and rapist responsible for two bodies found in Mdantsane last week is fighting for his life after he was stoned and beaten by angry NU2 residents in Mdantsane last night. The man, whose name is known to the Dispatch, was dragged out of his NU2 home by a mob who beat him with sticks and pelted him with stones before the police arrived and dragged him to safety. His mother called the police and the police arrived and rescued him, said a community leader who asked to remain anonymous.According to the community leader, the suspect was sentenced to prison for similar offences before and was released from jail in 2015. If you can check the records you will see that the rapes and killings took place shortly after he was released in 2015. The gruesome discovery of two bodies on Wednesday was made by community members who were chasing down a man believed to have raped a schoolgirl.The women are believed to have been abducted, raped and murdered before they were dumped in the thicket.Fear of a serial killer on the loose spread quickly.The Dispatch was told that the man was beaten by a very angry and clumsy crowd.Some of the missiles aimed at him ended up on the attackers. The anti-crime mob was very disorganised and were accidentally hitting each with the sticks and stones. Ward 11 councillor Mashwabada Gcilishe said police rushed the man to Cecilia Makiwane with serious injuries. He is there under police guard.Gcilishe said he intervened to prevent the mob from burning down his house, which is owned by his mother. We condemn acts of vigilantism and mob justice. Yes, our hearts are sore from the killings of the two children but we can t take the law into our own hands. Court processes must run their course. Gcilishe said he received a report during a crisis committee meeting called to address the spate of killings that there was mounting evidence linking the man to the killings. Members of the voting district committee and the ward committee members told me about man so I made plans to locate him so that I could tell him to hand himself over to the police because he was in trouble. Gcilishe said he couldn t find the man before he had to rush to a 6pm meeting, where he was when he received the call about the stoning.Cambridge police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said: I just called the investigating officer and he told me police are still at the scene following up on strong leads. They will call me later to confirm the outcomes but what is clear is that they will make an arrest. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za