The embattled King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality s only two fire engines were taken in for repairs two months ago and at the moment, has no capacity to battle a major fire. And, apart from a lack of fire engines, firefighters have no breathing apparatus.These shocking revelations were made by firefighters when the Daily Dispatch visited the municipal fire station to check on its capacity to fight fires, in the wake of the massive fires that raged through the southern Cape and south Eastern Cape recently. Both KSD trucks were bought more than 10 years ago and are in a state of disrepair.KSD communications manager Sonwabo Mampoza, after consulting chief fire officer Jason Subramoney, confirmed that the municipality had no operational fire engine as both were in for repairs.Apart from the fire engines, and the lack of oxygen masks, firefighters claimed their protective clothing was of such poor quality that one of them nearly died when his jacket caught alight.KSD charges households R377.90 and businesses R680 a year for fire levies.The local authority is supposed to have a fully-fledged fire department to cover its 105240 houses with a population of close to 500000 according to the 2011 Census.Instead, it has to rely on the OR Tambo district municipality, the airport and the 14 South African Infantry military battalion for assistance in case of fire.The KSD Fire Department is supposed to service Mthatha, Mqanduli, Coffee Bay, Hole-in-the-Wall and other surrounding villages. There have been no fire engines for the past two months. All are in for repairs, Mampoza said. But it does not mean that we have been left with nothing to cover the area. There is a standing order to get assistance from the Mthatha Airport, 14 SAI and OR Tambo. Residents must not lose hope we are committed to servicing them, he assured.This means the most central fire station in Mthatha which could respond first to any fire in town is not in a position to do so.Instead, the municipality has to request fire engines located about 5km to more than 10km from the CBD.Mampoza said the only fire department in KSD was in Mthatha and there were no satellite sites in Mqanduli, Coffee Bay or Hole-in-the-Wall which are located more than 100km away. There are plans to have a satellite station in Mqanduli to cover Mqanduli, Coffee Bay and surrounding areas. This is still in the process and we are looking for funding, Mampoza said.When the Dispatch visited the department yesterday, the bays where the fire engines were supposed to be parked on standby was empty.There was only one bakkie and passenger vehicles.Some firefighters who spoke to the Dispatch yesterday on condition of anonymity, said there were times they received call-outs to fires but could not put them out as fire engines were not working. This posed a risk to us, as community members think that the problem is with us firefighters, said one firefighter.The firefighters believe the area needed at least four fire engines.Mampoza said there was no budget to buy new fire engines.OR Tambo district municipality spokesman Ayongezwa Lungisa said they were happy to help when there was a need. But next week we are to give three fire engines to some of the five local municipalities under us. We hope that this will help, said Lungisa, but he declined to say which municipalities would receive those trucks.The KSD fire department has 36 firefighters.Firefighters also raised the issue of their protective clothing which they said was of poor quality and the lack of oxygen masks which they said impacted negatively on firefighters as they were exposed to smoke. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za