Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe sang the praises of the people who were brave enough to form and launch the new Black Business Forum (BBF) at the EL IDZ last night. He said their actions championed the interests of the majority of South Africans .More than 300 Eastern Cape business people braved last night s cold weather to witness the launch of the new forum.Radebe and premier Phumulo Masualle were keynote speakers.Radebe said: BBF must be a platform to address the interests of black-owned businesses. You are at the coalface and the forefront of the struggle for economic liberation. You have dared to champion not only the interests of business but indeed the interests of the majority of South Africans as they continue to struggle to liberate themselves. Masualle described the launch as the best solution considering the challenges involved in meeting the targets set to transform South Africa s economy. This is in response to our commitment to respect other state organs so that we can work together to deal with transformation challenges in the economic sector. We are still beset with the challenge to meet targets in transforming the economy. BBF would add an important voice in realising this, said Masualle.The forum, a brainchild of well known business figures such as Mtheza Buya and Luthando Bara to mention but a few, is a non-profit organisation founded to address the constraints that many black-owned businesses face in growing their businesses and participating in the mainstream economy.Also attending the event last night were agriculture MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane, Nafcoc s Phumzile Ntentela and SA Council of Churches Reverend Lulama Ntshingwa.The founders, earlier in the day, met with Economic Affairs MEC Sakhumzi Somyo, who also confirmed his full support for the initiative, which has seen members of various other forums such as Business Unity SA and the National African Federated Chamber of Commerce (Nafcoc) working together towards one common goal. I can safely state this initiative is a step in the right direction because it is hard to work with business people who are far apart with very diverse interests. It was very reassuring for us to hear that the forum includes members of Nafcoc, the Progressive Black Professionals and the likes of Business Unity SA, said Somyo.Somyo s department had committed to prioritise Eastern Cape businesses first, when appointing companies to deliver services effectively from the 2017-18 financial year.He said in line with the provincial government s commitment to give Eastern Cape companies 50% of all contracts, it was important to inform the members of the forum about our concerns too. We are concerned about the quality of work that some companies give when hired to do something. We are equally concerned about the speed at which some companies do the job. The MEC said he had urged the new forum to look into malpractice such as bribing and substandard products. We have to investigate these cases of bribing officials because we cannot allow companies to close shop because of greedy officials who want to make extra cash for a job which they are hired to do. 