Everything needed to turn a house into a dream home will be on display at the 17th Your Home Expo which opens in the BKB building tomorrow morning and runs until Sunday. From pots and Persian carpets to blinds and beds, visitors will be spoilt for choice, thanks to vendors who are bringing their innovative wares to East London from as far afield as Cape Town, Johannesburg, Bloemfontein and Oudtshoorn.Organiser Rodwell Sims, who founded the popular expo in 2001 and also owns Your Home magazine with wife Linda, said it was good to be back in the BKB building after an absence of six years.The expo, which was first held at River Park, has moved from venue to venue in the city and was situated at the International Convention Centre (ICC) at the beachfront for the past two years.Ironically, although the expo is all about the home, it has yet to find a permanent home. We thought the ICC was home until the terms of the contract changed, said Sims.He said the expo was set up in the BKB building in Arcadia for four years, before the warehouse was sold. It has also been held in the Waverley Blankets building in in Chiselhurst and at Hemingways mall. We thought the BKB building was going to be renovated into offices, but only a portion was developed for the agriculture department officials and so we still have 4000m for 200 stands. Delicious eats are a huge drawcard for families who make a day of it at the expo and this year will see a return of food vendors as well as an additional deli section selling fresh fruit juice, sauces and nuts. At the ICC people had to eat at the restaurant, but they like the vibe of the old-style vendors selling festival food. This year we even have a stand called Kobus se Gat from Oudtshoorn who is selling roosterkoek. Expo-goers have a great opportunity to win prizes worth R160000 in total. There will be 13 draws taking place on Sunday and people who enter can win a number of prizes. Entry forms can be found in the Daily Dispatch and will also be available at the venue. Two parking lots have been designated for visitors below the Fitzpatrick Road expo venue on Merino Drive and also at the City Life Church (formerly City Baptist) in Quigney where a free shuttle will convey visitors to and from the venue.lTickets for the Your Home Expo cost R40 for adults, R20 for pensioners and R15 for scholars. The expo opens from 10am to 5pm.