A: is not for apple. It s for the Gupta brothers Atul and Ajay and trusted business associate Ashu Chawla B: is for board members of State Owned Entities and State Owned Companies who have been captured. And for an apartment in the the Burj Khalifa in Dubai the world s tallest building which was captured by the president s son Duduzane Zuma. With a little help from the GuptasC: is for captured croniesD: is for Duduzane Zuma the captured sonE: is for emails (of the leaked variety) revealing how the Guptas captured the state while leading the Gupta lifestyle. It s also for Emirates Hill the new retirement home of the esteemed president Jacob ZumaF: is for Faith Muthambi who scheduled a meeting with the Guptas two months before the launch of the Gupta news channel ANN7. A conflict of interests perhaps?G: is for Gert van der Merwe the family s lawyer who speaks a lot but says littleH: is for hotel bills the high life and hysterical denialsI: is for Iqbal Sharma dubious business associate of the Guptas. Also for India where the family comes fromJ: is for Jacob Zuma: connection pal tjomma mngai and of course the presidentK: is for kleptomania which seems appropriate when family head Atul in an obscure statement said that by 2020 the family wants to amass R100-billion. That s enough to buy a government hang on a second!L: is for landings such as those at Waterkloof Air Force Base where hundreds of Gupta wedding guests made a surprise arrival on a private jet airlinerM: is for Mosebenzi I deny everything Zwane South Africa s mineral resources minister who claims to have no links to or knowledge of the Gupta family. Although he did fly to Switzerland to help them buy a coal mineN: is for No I am not responsible for State Capture the frequent denial by finance minister Malusi Gigaba in response to media questions on state captureO: is for the Oberoi Hotel where the Guptas wined dined and accommodated their new minionsP: is for Parliament the Guptas next home?Q: is for Quit while you are ahead something we think the Guptas should have done after making their first billion randR: is for R5.3-billion in alleged kickbacks the Guptas received for facilitating the locomotive deal between Transnet and China South RailS: is for the secretive Saxonwold Shebeen where the appointment of ministers was allegedly decidedT: is for former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela whose State of Capture report made disgraced Eskom head Brian Molefe cry. Oh yes it s also for Tegeta the little coal mine that got the big contracts with a little help from the big guysU: is for uranium a mineral the Guptas have taken a great deal of interest in. They bought the Shiva uranium mine around the time that Zuma started talking up nuclear powerV: Vytjie Mentor the first ANC MP to blow the whistle on the Guptas capture of government ministersW: is for wedding which got the Guptas lowly government minions like Bruce Koloane in trouble. Leaked emails contain at least 2 000 unique references to this ostentatious event held at Sun City and in IndiaX: is for the x-rated From Paris with Love photos of Duduzane s secret mistress which he did not want his wife to seeY: is for yes the word the Guptas expect to hear from those they have captured and for Yes folks this is really happening! Z: is for the Republic of Zupta the big trophy in the state capture cabinet and the title of Pieter Louis Myburgh s book about this whole shambles