A German professional football club can openly brag about having Nelson Mandela on its team. And no this is not fake news or a joke. Bundesliga side Eintracht Frankfurt recently signed on Mandela an 18-year-old striker from Cameroon seemingly named for the famed late statesman.Mandela began his football career at Barcelona before leaving the team s La Masia academy at the age of 13 and moving to Germany. He scored eight goals in 14 games for the Frankfurt under-19 side and is being touted as a future star by German media.The fact that the soccer player whose full name is Nelson Mandela Mbouhom shares a name with Madiba has set tongues wagging on social media and made international headlines.One UK newspaper was quoted as saying that Mandela certainly has a lot to live up to not least because he shares a name with the great former president of South Africa .Luzuko Koti spokesperson for the Nelson Mandela Foundation said they had heard about Cameroon s Nelson Mandela. We note this interesting coincidence and accept that many parents name their children inspired by their heroes or idols. We believe this case is one of those. We don t believe that there is any copyright issue involved in this incident and wish Mr Mbouhom all the best in his football career in Germany said Koti.The Nelson Mandela Foundation the official custodian of the Mandela brand reportedly owns more than a dozen copyrights and trademarks for Mandela which it uses for fundraising and charitable works.Its copyright includes the Nelson Mandela name Madiba and Rolihlahla which was Mandela s given name. The brand Nelson Mandela is not like the brand Coca-Cola. It s huge it s complex there are many sub-brands within that brand. We implement protection in a relatively small space a Nelson Mandela Foundation official reportedly told Reuters after Mandela s death in 2013.Twitterati was alight with comments on the soccer player s name.One Twitter user posted: There s an 18-year-old Cameroonian footballer who s (sic) full first name is Nelson Mandela why black parents always gotta be so extra??? Another asked: Why is he named Nelson Mandela? 