East Londoners have rolled up their sleeves and galvanised support for the victims of the Garden Route inferno. Nahoon 160 Round Table member Gavin Marais said they swiftly responded to a call from the Knysna Round Table. Round Table has rallied with five others who will be delivering blankets, non-perishable foods and clothes to Knysna on Saturday. We have received a R5000 contribution from PriceWaterhouseCoopers and several boxes of soup and clothes. We have already filled a vehicle and a trailer with blankets from the public. But we plan on collecting so much more for Knysna, which is why we will be collecting until Saturday morning. Marais said the trip would be fuelled by Caltex Marketers, who have donated petrol and diesel for the vehicles making the trip.Marais said donations would be accepted at Gas Mart at the Checkers complex in Nahoon.In the same area Honda and Kia East London will also be sending a truck to Knysna to offer various relief items to the victims of the wild fire. Residents are encouraged to donate items there too.Tiso Blackstar (formerly Times Media Group) is also part of the fundraising effort.Up to 10000 people were evacuated from their homes as fires continued to ravage the southern Cape yesterday, fanned by a ferocious winter storm.Worst-hit was Knysna as firefighters battled to quell 26 fires along the tourist trail. The intense storm has claimed nine lives, including that of a three-year-old, as it battered the Western Cape region and caused the blaze to spread rapidly, according to environment and planning MEC Anton Bredell. The storm, which struck on Tuesday, has damaged buildings, felled trees, left 46000 homes without electricity and caused travel chaos as flights and rail services were hit by gales and flooding.Colin Deiner, the chief director of the Western Cape s fire service, told Voice of the Cape radio that at least 150 structures had been destroyed across the region.Military helicopters are on standby to help extinguish the blazes as soon as conditions permit, local media reported.Western Cape premier Helen Zille told Kaya FM: What we need is air power water-bombing, and helicopters to see which areas are affected and who needs to be evacuated. She spent the night in Knysna to coordinate the response of the many emergency services involved. Additional reporting by AFP