IT TAKES someone whose passionate about economic development in rural areas to be doing what we re doing at Masisizane Fund.The Fund was established in 2007 as an initiative of Old Mutual Group with a mandate to contribute measurably to job creation and poverty eradication in rural, per-urban and township areas. We re trying to make sure that this is a success, not only for the farmers but also for the communities in which they live in.In 2013, Masisizane Fund established an agribusiness value chain development programme in the Alfred Nzo and Harry Gwala districts. We decided to cluster emerging farmers around Matatiele and later on, we added more farmers in uMzimkhulu seeking to achieve economies of scale. We are making a difference the people on the ground are appreciating what we&#8217;re doing. One of the things that I am not shy about is to bring back the dignity of black people We are making a difference the people on the ground are appreciating what we&#8217;re doing. One of the things that I am not shy about is to bring back the dignity of black peopleThese districts are characterised by high levels of unemployment, dependency on social grants and a high number of unskilled labourers. We invested over R80million in the area funding businesses that produce maize, soya beans, milk, wheat and other products since inception.We invested over R80million in the area funding businesses that produce maize, soya beans, milk, wheat and other products since inception. It requires partners that have a similar mandate. We partner a lot with the department of rural development and the department of agriculture. We ve also partnered with other private sector companies, including Omnia as a fertiliser company.We ve also partnered with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants to ensure that effective financial and business management principles are embedded in the daily operations of these enterprises . It a journey. It will take a few years so it requires patience in capital.I think we re lucky at Masisizane because we ve got people who are passionate about entrepreneurs, particularly black entrepreneurs. We are making a difference the people on the ground are appreciating what we&#8217;re doing.One of the things that I am not shy about is to bring back the dignity of black people. Farming is something that we grew up doing.Zizipho Mqwala Nyanga is the Old Mutual Masisizane Fund CEO