Dennis Vorster has been appointed as headmaster to steer Hudson Park High School to greater heights. He takes over the reins from Roy Hewett, who retired in 2016 after a 17-year career as head of the school, at the beginning of the last term.Vorster, who holds an honours degree in educational management, is currently headmaster at St Patrick s College in Kokstad.Speaking with the Daily Dispatch yesterday, he said he was excited to be appointed in a city environment with a country feel , which he said is what East London feels like.Vorster has been an educator for 28 years.He said his career was borne from a desire to provide children with the opportunity to develop their full potential. The relationship with pupils should be one of sincere interest in all aspects of their lives. He or she should be aware of their strengths and limitations so that it is possible to create a nurturing environment that suits their needs. I would like it to be a wholesome environment to the community. I am a hands-on person and would like to get involved in the community outside the school, to bring an overall contribution. Vorster said he strives to provide a solid foundation to further build the school s foundation on. I hold the firm belief that in order to create a dynamic learning atmosphere, the school needs to equip the educators and other stakeholders with the necessary tools to develop and enhance the instructional environment. The school head is in the position to create an environment in which growth can occur, he said. He said he would love to continue with Hudson s tradition of well-rounded education and produce young people who will contribute positively to society.Acting principal Dave Alers said: We are delighted over his appointment. I believe that he s a good educationalist and role model for the Hudson community. He will contribute tremendously to the helm of the school for the foreseeable future . Alers will continue in his position as acting principal until the end of the third term, and Vorster will start his new post at the beginning of the final term.