Another taxi boss was shot and killed in the Eastern Cape last night, becoming the 35th death in taxi wars raging in the province since 2015. The victim, believed to be from East London s Amalinda suburb, was affiliated to the Mdantsane Uncedo Services Taxi Association (Mdusta).The shooting took place in Braelyn Extension late yesterday in what appears to have been an ambush.He was gunned down in full view of people walking home from work.The deceased, believed to be in his early 40s, cannot be named as at the time of writing his relatives had not yet been informed of his death.He was killed just a week after another prominent taxi operator and a Mdusta member, Mthetheleli Mtheza Mqala, was shot dead at the Mdantsane taxi rank.While the motive for last night s shooting is not clear, most of the taxi deaths have been due to disputes over operating routes.Immediately after the killing, speculation was rife that the latest shooting could be linked to the one last week.However, authorities could not confirm this as Eastern Cape police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni could not be reached for comment at the time of writing.Yesterday, the Amalinda Main Road from the Mdantsane access road was closed for hours as police experts combed the crime scene for clues.The Daily Dispatch arrived as the body of the victim was being taken from his charcoal Toyota Hilux bakkie.Witnesses said two suspects approached the deceased as he was approaching an intersection and shot at him. He died on the scene. They shot at him in full view of the people who were coming from work. We could not believe this and some ran to the bushes, said a man from Duncan Village s C section.Another man said the suspects later mingled with workers after the incident. They walked with people who were coming from work before jumping over fences to what is believed was their waiting vehicle, said another man.None of the people who spoke to the Daily Dispatch wanted to be named.A taxi member from Mdusta said Mqala had beaten the latest victim in the vote for the association s chairman last week.Mqala received 199 votes while the shot man received only 16 votes, the member said. We are hurting with what is happening in our association. These two members were competing but it s sad to lose them both like this a week apart, said the member.South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) leader in the Eastern Cape Noluntu Mahashe said the latest killings were a cause for concern. We can say that the latest killings are linked to the elections that happened last week. Both men were competing for one position. The winner was killed last week and the loser is killed today. These people must stop this. If one has lost he or she must understand and support the new leadership. There s no need to fight for positions, said Mahashe. We ve lost countless members in recent years because of this. This must stop. I am so tired of this. Since 2015, at least 35 taxi operators have been shot and killed between East London area and OR Tambo district.Passengers and bystanders have at times been caught in the crossfire in recent months, especially in the OR Tambo region, where gunmen opened fire on everyone next to the Circus Triangle Mall in Mthatha.The violence in the OR Tambo region resulted in police closing the Ntlaza taxi rank in Libode before later reopening it.There was also an attempt on Mahashe s life when a man shot her while she was home. She survived the ordeal. DDR