Nomzi Qiliphela had not seen her husband Mngceleni since January, and when he returned home late last month she had no idea it would be the last time she saw him. Mngceleni Qiliphela, 47, came home for a funeral on July 29, but less than 24 hours later he was kidnapped by a group of men in his village of Mpangala outside Libode.He was accused of livestock theft.His wife Nomzi, 35, was preparing breakfast for him when about 50 young men from the village arrived. They first demanded his gun, but he said he had no firearm. After that they tied his hands on his back with a wire and kidnapped him. They said if I try to call the police, they would kill my husband, myself, all our children and my mother-in-law. They wouldn t tell me where they were taking my husband and why. I begged them not to injure my husband but set him free but they would not listen or care they walked off with him armed with sticks, she said.However, she said she had yet to be officially informed of her husband s death and had not been called to identify his body.Instead, she had heard from other people that Mngceleni s body had been found with three others two on a river bank and two on a rocky area at the bottom of a hill.All four victims were from the same clan.After kidnapping Qiliphela, the same group of young men allegedly kidnapped Vuyisa Mtsubho, 39, his cousin Vuyani Mtsubho, 35, and another man, Sibongile Kholo, 55.The Mtsubho cousins were taken from their homes in front of their sisters and mothers. Kholo was taken from a relative s home while attending a traditional ceremony. I was at home when a group of young men arrived and demanded to see Vuyisa and Vuyani. They said [Vuyisa and Vuyani] were involved in stock theft and they wanted to interrogate them. They promised they would not harm them they were all armed with sticks but were calm and joking, Vuyisa s sister, Asanda, said.She said the two never returned home and no one had told them what had happened to them.Vuyisa was abducted in front of Asanda, his 27-year-old wife Nonkanyiso Mtsubho, their four children aged between two and nine, and his 68-year-old mother, Faniswa Mtsubho.The men were reported missing at the Libode police station and police came the same night but could not find them or their bodies. They also could not locate the men who allegedly kidnapped them.Kholo s body was found by his sister, Nozaziso Kholo, who went alone in search of her brother. I could not sleep the whole night after my brother was kidnapped &#8230; But early in the morning I had a vision and something was directing me to where his body was &#8230; Having travelled for a kilometre or two in the veld, I found his body. It was burnt, his hands were tied [behind] his back with a wire and he had large wound on his back. I called my sister-in-law, police and my other family members, Nozaziso said.When police arrived, they found the body of Mngceleni nearby.Later, Vuyisa and Vuyani s bodies were found about 500m away. They had both been stabbed and burnt, their hands tied with wire.But by Tuesday morning, the Mtsubho and Qiliphela families had not been officially informed of the deaths of their loved ones.When the Daily Dispatch arrived at the village about 9am, the Mtsubho families were meeting to discuss the matter and pray.Police in a convoy of about 10 vehicles entered the village at about 11am, searching for the suspects. But the Dispatch witnessed no arrests, and the police left empty-handed within an hour.Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said cases of murder and kidnapping had been opened and arrests were expected soon. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za&nbsp;