A group of mine workers stopped Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma yesterday from entering Koppie in Wonderkop, Marikana, where 34 striking mineworkers were gunned down by police in 2012. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) members prevented Dlamini-Zuma from laying a wreath at the spot in memory of the deceased.She was forced to leave the area and did not even step out of her vehicle.Families of the deceased and community members feel the ANC government have not done anything to compensate them for the incident.The area has also been a no-go area for President Jacob Zuma and Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa.The union members told her and her entourage among them members of the ANC Women s League (ANCWL) that she would not be allowed to use the mineworkers pain to pave the way for her to be elected ANC president in December.They shouted at her saying: This is not a playground. Why did you not come when you were still the chairperson of the AU? A Marikana community activist, Napoleon Webster, said Dlamini-Zuma s attendance was purely political. We can t use the pain of our people for her to become the ANC president. Why did she want to do it privately? She is doing what Cyril [Ramaphosa] did. We chased her husband away last [time], he said.Earlier in the day Dlamini-Zuma paid a visit to the Bapo ba Mogale royal family, who have endorsed her to replace Zuma.At the palace, ANC Women s League members clad in yellow and white T-shirts, which had NDZ for president written on them ululated and shouted: We are ready for Nkosazana as she stepped out of her black Mercedes-Benz.A fleet of expensive vehicles, including BMW X5s, formed part of her long convoy.The nephew of Bapo ba Mogale chief Andrew Mogale, Emius Mogale, described Dlamini-Zuma as a very important person among all the women.The royal family, which has appealed to Dlamini-Zuma to help it in its efforts to have land repatriated, has a population of about 60 000.Addressing the Bapo ba Mogale traditional authority, ANCWL members and St John church members, Dlamini-Zuma emphasised that the country s economy needed to be transformed radically. The financial sector is also in the hands of the few. We must change the way the economy is structured. We should not leave women behind. Women need to be empowered, Dlamini-Zuma said.Bapo ba Mogale investments CEO Lehlogonolo Nthontho said the royal family was endorsing Dlamini-Zuma because in the past the family had suffered at the hands of comrades who were exploited by mine bosses.Asked how she felt about the endorsement, Dlamini-Zuma replied: It is important looking at the 2019 [general elections] When you are endorsed by the family and community it is important. ANCWL secretary-general Meakgo Matuba downplayed the incident, saying: We respect the decision of some Amcu members for requesting the ANCWL postpone its wreath- laying today [yesterday] until there is further engagement on the outstanding issues that the union feels the ANC-led government has not resolved them. We will continue working with all sectors of society, including the labour unions, to ensure that there is everlasting peace and harmony in Marikana. Matuba said the ANCWL was visiting Marikana for the second time in less than two months.Amcu president Joseph Mathunjwa said Dlamini-Zuma and her entourage did not follow the right protocol. Amcu branch structures feel undermined by Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and her people, Mathunjwa said. Branch leaders feel that Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and her people should have communicated with the [Amcu] national office. Mathunjwa said it had been mentioned to Dlamini-Zuma and her entourage that Koppie should not be used for political point-scoring.Comrades who were injured during the 2012 massacre were the ones who prevented Dlamini-Zuma and her entourage from laying the wreath, Mathunjwa added. DDC