The spokesman of the AbaThembu royal family, Thanduxolo Mtirara has launched a scathing attack on high court Judge Busiswa Majiki accusing her of interfering with the pending high court application that could see her son, Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo, stripped of the acting kingship. Last month, one of King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo s brothers, Prince Mankunku Mthandeni Dalindyebo, who had been recommended by the Tolo Commission as acting king, filed an urgent court application to declare null and void Premier Phumulo Masualle s certificate recognising Prince Azenathi as acting king.The application came a week after the premier appointed Azenathi in terms of the Provincial Traditional Leadership and Governance Act.The matter is currently being heard in the Grahamstown High Court.Mtirara claims Mankunku withdrew last year s application to block Azenathi s coronation due to perceived bias and judicial interference by Majiki, who was in the courtroom during the proceedings.Mtirara claimed that Majiki had called Mankunku s lawyers, Mgangatho Attorneys, last week requesting court papers and existing court orders in the matter against her son a move he described as an intimidation tactic .In a telephonic interview yesterday, Mtirara said Majiki s call to Mankunku s lawyers was a form of intimidation. The respondent is Masualle, her son is just cited in the application, it has nothing to do with her. We want the world to see her interference. She thinks that she is a judge of AbaThembu but merely a former wife she must stop what she s doing. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday, Majiki said there was nothing wrong with requesting court papers. Court proceedings are public documents, there is nothing wrong with what I ve done. Commenting on the allegations that she intimidated judges with her presence in the courtroom during the coronation hearing, Majiki said: Before I am a public servant I am a human being with relatives and I have a life so I am not apologetic about my personal involvement. Mtirara said Mankunku had long called for a judge from outside the province to preside over the matter between himself and Azenathi due to Majiki s alleged interference. Last year, when Mankunku s lawyers withdrew the application to block the coronation due to perceived interference from Majiki, Judge Gerald Bloem, who presided over the matter, told the court that Judge President Themba Sangoni was unable to source a judge from outside the Eastern Cape division to handle the matter.Mtirara has now called for the justice system to act against Majiki s alleged interference. As the royal family, we still have confidence in the South African justice system and that justices of our courts will diligently perform their duties without compromising their positions. We strongly condemn Madam Majiki&#8217;s actions and humbly plead with her to desist from her conduct. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za