The university of Fort Hare has the potential to own the agricultural space and offer models of food security, according to newly appointed chancellor Advocate Dumisa Ntsebeza. In a wide-ranging interview with politics reporter Simthandile Ford, Ntsebeza, a human rights crusader who took over the reins following the death of Dr Makhenkesi Stofile, speaks about the University of Fort Hare, his new role and student protests.QUESTION: You come into the higher education system while it is facing a myriad of challenges. One of the biggest challenges still remains the redress of the inequality in the education system. Do you think the department has put emphasis on the challenge?ANSWER: A lot has been done to redress the inequalities of the past in black universities, but I think all will agree that there is still more to be done.Q: You are joining the 100-year-old university just after it has appointed a new vice-chancellor. What will your role be in trying to achieve the new vision of the university?A: My role in the university as a chancellor really is very minimal.The role of a chancellor is just to confer degrees and it has nothing to do with the operations.The university has a vice-chancellor, Professor Sakhela Buhlungu, and council chair, Thandi Orlyen, who are running the university operation. But because I do have an opinion and if it happens that they would want my opinion, I will gladly offer it. What I m saying is, I am available for the university .Q: How has the University of Fort Hare developed over the years and do you see further development in the future?A: The university is quite fortunate to have acquired a great mind like Buhlungu.[He] is no pushover and he carries with him an experience that goes across all spheres of education.He has been in management positions in what is termed as white universities.He has seen how things are run in those institutions and he now brings that experience and the university will benefit a lot from him.Q: What should the University of Fort Hare represent to South Africa?A: Fort Hare is like all other homeland universities in that they are still the only accessible universities by a large number of black children. Therefore, it is important to make sure these universities get as much support as they can.These universities must be equipped to offer quality education as they serve a large number of students. The University of Fort Hare should take its position and it should mark it well.This is a university that has amazing potential to own the agricultural space and become a leader in agricultural research and to offer models of food security.The university exists in the Eastern Cape, a province that is largely categorised by agriculture and owns hectares of agricultural land.Q: Recently South African universities have been affected by the biggest student protests to hit the country since apartheid ended in 1994. How can the universities address these protests?A: Universities need to first understand what the movements are all about, the #FeesMustFall movement, the #RhodesMustFall movement and any other movement. Understanding the motives around these protests will enable policymakers to make the right recommendations. It cannot be us against them, but students also cannot hold the country at ransom.Q: The call for free education has been gaining a lot of momentum. Do you think it is feasible for the country?A: I do not know if it s feasible or not to offer free education at this stage, but I do believe that constant consultation among the stakeholders should be maintained around the issue. But we also need to set mid-term solutions even though we continue to consult. We can t be in discussions forever without some implementation. simthandilef@dispatch.co.za