Sexual assault charges against a Bhisho legislature employee accused of raping one of the two Bloemfontein women in his company last month were dropped . King William s Town police spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa confirmed charges against the 49-year-old man were dropped in the King William s Town Magistrate s Court this week. The complainants visited the police station to speak to the investigating officer of the case on Monday. They submitted a sworn statement stating that they are withdrawing the charges against the accused. The statement was then taken to court by the investigating officer and the magistrate withdrew the charges, Mawisa said. She did not explain why the women dropped the charges. There was nothing we could do but to adhere to the wishes of the complainants and the court, said Mawisa adding the docket was now closed. The employee was arrested in February at his residence. Police then said the man was alleged to have met the two women aged 26 and 34 and both from Bloemfontein at a buy-and-braai place in King William s Town on Sunday evening. The trio later took the party to his place. The women say they woke up the following morning naked next to him. Mawisa said the women were not familiar with the area as they were in the province for temporary duties. They left the home and asked around for the nearest police station until they came across a patrol van and reported what had happened to them to the SAPS officers. Police then drove to the man s house and arrested him. Mawisa said the younger woman had laid a complaint of sexual assault. The 34-year-old friend had not laid a charge as she was unsure whether she was sexually assaulted or not. However they were both examined by a doctor. The charges were dropped as police were still waiting for DNA test results. The accused appeared before magistrate Nkosinathi Mjekula on February 22 and was granted R500 bail. The case was postponed to March 20 for further investigation. It was on this date that charges were withdrawn. 