Public Parks in Buffalo City Metro will benefit from a R500 000 allocation from the metro s capital budget for the 2016-17 financial year. Already James Pearce Park in Stirling has been fenced along Epsom Road. This includes a remote controlled gate to ensure vagrants are kept out at night as the gate will be locked.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said some of the money would be used to upgrade other parks, especially those in previously disadvantaged areas.He said the facilities would be identified during the Integrated Development Plan (IDP) process.Regular James Pearce Park user Bessie King, who has been training dogs in the family park for 20 years, said the fence would help keep troublemakers out at night.King said the park was frequently used for parties until the early hours of the morning . I am sure the residents around here will be happy when this stops, she said, adding it would also contribute towards the general upkeep of the park. I hope this fence will lower the crime level in the park and I am so glad that it is finally going up after all [ward 18 DA PR councillor] Isabel Thompson s petitioning for it to be erected. The park is home to a tennis club and it has a children s playground and many open spaces for picnics. It is also a popular wedding photo venue.Cindi said upgrading of city parks was carried out when funds were made available. Our parks are maintained on an ongoing basis as part of the regular grass mowing programme and the replacement of broken equipment is carried out when necessary and when funds are made available, he said. The majority of our parks range from fair to good maintenance standard but after the heavy rains experienced during January and February, the parks are overgrown with grass. The cutting thereof is a work in progress and will be fully managed at the end of March, Cindi said.Development of parks involved identifying available public open spaces, clearing bush, planting trees, levelling surfaces and installing recreational equipment, watering points and lighting.James Pearce Park had been listed as a priority project in the IDP process since 2006.Thompson motioned last year for a fence to be erected around the facility in a bid to reduce crime. I am so happy that the fence is being erected after trying for nearly 10 years to get it done, she said. We want to keep it as a family park for the entire East London community, not just Stirling residents, because mothers often take their kids out there for parties or picnics and we want to preserve that. Thompson said the gates would be locked at around 5pm. oreillya@timesmedia.co.za