Eastern Cape beauty Nambitha Ben-Mazwi has joined the team of top actors who will be taking over the 8pm slot on e.tv from next month. Mazwi features in e.tv s upcoming drama series, Broken Vows, which makes its debut on the channel on April 10.Set against the backdrop of a family-owned wedding planning company in Midrand, Broken Vows explores the dynamics of love, family feuds, insatiable lust and the deep, dark secrets of the powerful Moswane family.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch this week, Ben-Mazwi said shooting with the cast of Broken Vows has been a life-changing experience for her. The cast is amazing, they couldn t have chosen a better cast. Everyone on the team wants this to work and they are putting in the work it s exciting, she said.The drama series features Thapelo Mokoena as Uhuru, Emmanuel Castis as Chris Myburgh, Sharlene Surtie-Richards as Charmaine, Lehasa Moloi as Lebo, Enhle Maphumulo as Azania, Jo-Anne Reyneke as Thandi, and the legendary Nomsa Nene, who plays the role of Thandi s mother.It also features Mandla Gaduka, who played the recurring role of Damian in Ashes to Ashes.Ben-Mazwi plays the role of Lulama a sexy, stylish and brutally honest young woman.She has featured in shows such as Traffic and Doubt on Mzansi Magic, Black Mirror a series on Netflix, and in Madiba a series on BET.Ben-Mazwi said she had enjoyed doing musicals in high school, as a hobby, but did not think she would one day feature on the screen nationally and internationally. I was an academic person at school and that s why I decided to study business science at the University of Cape Town. I went on to [receive an] honours degree and I worked in the corporate [world] before I decided to call it quits, she said.Growing up in Port Elizabeth, she said she travelled with the Eastern Cape Children s Choir to Europe and performed in a number of musicals. I was inspired by my uncle, actor and playwright veteran Winston Ntshona. I always bonded with him and I was a fan of his work, she said.After a year working as a marketing strategist, Ben-Mazwi resigned and moved to New York in 2012. I was sitting one evening at work and I was miserable. I knew this was not the life that I wanted to live. I loved being a strategist but I had to resign. I had no plan at all and I visited a friend in New York. What was supposed to be a two-week vacation turned to six months of working, she said.In New York, Ben-Mazwi started hosting gigs at a comedy club. I was well received and at that point it was experimental for me, she said.Upon her return to South Africa in 2013, Mazwi took on acting and presenting full-time. Acting is a calling for me, it s therapeutic. It found me and it made sense, she said, adding that she was always mindful of the roles that she took.Broken Vows makes its debut on e.tv on April 10 at 8pm. It will be replacing Gold Diggers. poliswap@dispatch.co.za