Tributes are pouring in for ANC stalwart Ahmed Kathrada who died in the early hours of Tuesday. Kathrada passed away at about 4am on Tuesday in a Johannesburg hospital after suffering complications from a medical procedure to deal with clotting on the brain. His condition had severely deteriorated in the hours leading up to his death.Politicians past and present took to Twitter to salute Kathrada including sports minister Fikile Mbalula and Jay Naidoo.The Nelson Mandela Foundation mourned the death of the ANC stalwart. We are deeply saddened to learn this morning of the passing on of our dear friend &amp; founding trustee Ahmed #Kathrada the foundation tweeted. Hamba Kahle Kathy. The Thabo Mbeki Foundation paid tribute to Kathrada for his contribution to the struggle against apartheid. Comrade Kathy as he was fondly known dedicated all his adult life to the struggle against apartheid and the construction of a non-racial non-sexist and democratic South Africa. For this principled stand he together with his fellow comrades spent more than a quarter of a century on Robben Island the foundation said in a statement. It is often said of the passing of the heroic that it is the end of an era. While this certainly applies to South Africa in many respects the TMF believes that to the extent that the ideals for which Comrade Kathy fought are yet to be realised we must do everything to ensure that the values which inspired him to battle germinate a million times over and produce more of his calibre who will instead of submitting vigorously prosecute the struggle for a South Africa that truly belongs to all who live in it. Our thoughts and prayers go to Comrade Kathy s partner Comrade Barbara Hogan his wider family of comrades and friends. DA leader Mmusi Maimane said Kathrada fought relentlessly for the freedoms South Africans share today.Maimane said: Uncle Kathy as he was affectionately known embodied a profound sense of compassion and an unwavering commitment to true justice. As leader at the forefront of the struggle for liberation Kathrada relentlessly fought for the freedoms we all cherish today. He recalled a conversation with Kathrada at Mandela s funeral. He told me of the years on Robben Island where he along with the likes of Mandela [Walter] Sisulu and [Oliver] Tambo never heard or saw the presence of children. He shared with me that for him freedom meant hearing the voices of children indicating his sincere compassion as well as his commitment to the future of our beautiful country said Maimane.Movie mogul Anant Singh said South Africa had lost a father and an inspirational leader.Singh who was close to Kathrada for almost 28 years saluted him for his humanity and quiet dignity . I remember as though it was yesterday the first time I met him almost 28 years ago soon after his release from prison. He has been a part of my life ever since and became part of our family he said.Singh who captured Kathrada s life in the documentary Ahmed Kathrada: A Man for All Seasons described him as a selfless leader who was committed to helping less fortunate South Africans. We join the millions of South Africans in celebrating Kathy s amazing life said Singh.&nbsp;