Western Cape Premier Helen Zille apologised on Thursday for suggesting that colonialism had positive spin-offs. Colonialism wasn&#8217;t all bad says Helen ZilleZille caused a stir on Thursday morning when she tweeted that people who claimed the legacy of colonialism was only negative should think of our independent judiciary transport infrastructure piped water etc . Would we have had a transition into specialised health care and medication without colonial influence? Just be honest please she wrote in a second tweet.But DA leader Mmusi Maimane and party spokesperson Phumzile van Damme differed with Zille s view. Let s make this clear: Colonialism like Apartheid was a system of oppression and subjugation. It can never be justified tweeted Maimane.Let&#39;s make this clear: Colonialism, like Apartheid, was a system of oppression and subjugation. It can never be justified.&mdash; Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) March 16, 2017Van Damme also expressed a similar sentiment. Colonialism was a crime against humanity. There isn t a single aspect of it that can be said to be positive or beneficial to Africans said Van Damme.Colonialism was a crime against humanity. There isn&#39;t a single aspect of it that can be said to be positive or beneficial to Africans.&mdash; Phumzile Van Damme (@zilevandamme) March 16, 2017Shortly after the two tweets Zille tweeted an apology. I apologise unreservedly for a tweet that may have come across as a defence of colonialism. It was not. I apologise unreservedly for a tweet that may have come across as a defence of colonialism. It was not.&mdash; Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 16, 2017Mbali Ntuli the party s former youth leader and current MPL at the KwaZulu-Natal legislature was the first prominent DA leader to call Zille out. It was ONLY negative!!Colonialism=development argument is trash as those subjugated can attest to (sic) she tweeted in reply to Zille. It s like saying Nazism was good for German democracy and their advancements in technology added Ntuli.But Zille replying to another twitter user @GrahamDowns she said: I do not know what positive Hitler produced. He stoked up nationalism and authoritarianism and genocide and destruction. Other twitter users like @Lazola Ndamase said the judicial system Zille was colonial. The judicial system is colonial hence it sends blacks to jail &amp; leaves land thieves &amp; apartheid murderers untouched he replied.