Two student political formations at the University of Fort Hare have complained they were barred from submitting candidates for the upcoming elections. The Democratic Alliance Students Organisation (Daso) missed the deadline to submit their list of candidates for the SRC elections at the Alice campus while Economic Freedom Fighters Students Command (EFFSC) missed their deadline at the East London campus.Both parties allege irregularities. The EFFSC has laid a formal complaint with the IEC, saying the submissions venue closed before the 3.30pm cutoff time on Friday.Submissions opened last Tuesday.Daso has handed their matter over to their provincial leadership. Alice campus secretary Ricardo Smith said they had arrived at the venue where names were being submitted before cutoff time. The gates were locked. We then went to the dean of students to report the matter. He came back with us and when we got there they had already closed. He then suggested we take the matter up with the IEC, he said.However, Smith said they had referred the matter to their provincial structure. Daso was adamant it would contest the upcoming elections, he said. We are still carrying on with our campaigns and our presence is very strong in the campus. We are confident that we are still going to be in charge of this campus, he said.In 2015, Daso took control of UFH s Alice campus after defeating the ANC-aligned South African Student Congress (Sasco).Smith admitted they went to the venue at the 11th hour. But it was before the cutoff time. We were delayed because we had to screen our candidates before submitting the names. In a letter to the IEC by EFFSC s East London campus, they seek its intervention in the matter. It was communicated that 3.30pm on March 24 would be the cut-off time for submission of the list of SRC candidates. Our colleagues arrived at the EL UFH designated submission post to submit EFFSC candidates list, but they were barred from doing so, read the letter. We tried to explain to the IEC official present and he told us that we are late and they will not accept our documents. EFFSC leader and SRC member at the EL campus Lundi Mbuto said if the IEC failed to address the matter they would approach the courts to intervene.UFH spokesman Lizo Phiti said the university had no role to play in the matter. Elections are managed by the IEC, he said.IEC Eastern Cape head Thami Mraji said he had not received a report on the matter. I will only be able to comment once I get the report, he said. sinom@dispatch.co.za Share this story: Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) Click to share on Tumblr (Opens in new window) Click to share on Google+ (Opens in new window) Click to share on WhatsApp (Opens in new window) Click to share on Pinterest (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to email this to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Recommended IEC status anchors democracy DISGRACEFUL: Rampaging Fort Hare students go on looting spree Fort Hare set to announce official SRC ANC ban on student elections