Fort Hare vice-chancellor Professor Sakhela Buhlungu has called on the Presidency to inject more resources into the university so that it can make a more meaningful contribution to the state-driven National Development Plan (NDP). The NDP, a vehicle of government aimed at reducing poverty and eliminating unemployment by 2030, was adopted by parliament in 2012.Fort Hare Solution, a business arm of the Alice-based university, organised a two-day conference at the East London International Convention Centre which ends today, where stakeholders discussed ways and means of making effective partnerships on the implementation of the plan.Minister in the Presidency Jeff Radebe was scheduled to give a keynote address but, according to his acting DG Tshediso Matona, other commitments had kept him away.Addressing the conference Buhlungu said from where UFH stood we need it [NDP] now .He said the university operated in an environment that was disadvantaged, under-served and neglected. We draw the bulk of our students from these communities. We draw our students from most villages in this province. They come from dysfunctional schools and they succeed notwithstanding the dysfunctionality, said Buhlungu.The conference takes place as students at UFH s East London campus enter the third week of a class boycott demanding, among other things, accommodation.Buhlungu said the NDP needed to have meaning for the university population. A level of availability of places to stay. A level of infrastructure at the university that works, that functions, said the newly appointed VC.The university has Alice as its main campus, but it also has satellite campuses in East London and Bhisho.He said East London was better resourced in terms of infrastructure than Alice.Buhlungu said: Our university is a pride of the nation, it has received a national award from the President, the supreme order of Baobab. We are proud of that. But if you go to our main campus you won t recognise that. You won t recognise the iconic institution that is celebrated far and wide and even globally. That is where we want to see the NDP. We are eminently positioned to contribute to the NDP by training young people and providing skills to the province, he added. Our ability to deliver at the expected level requires that we get the support, not just lip service. He said it was very significant that such a conference was hosted in the Eastern Cape because this is one of the provinces that is in dire need of new ideas, of progress, and that is in dire need of action. Yes we have the plan, but we need action. Several stakeholders were in attendance including a Buffalo City Metro delegation led by mayor Xola Pakati and the Industrial Development Corporation, as well as the National Planning Commission, represented by Matona.Responding to concerns raised about the insufficient financial support the university continues to receive, Matona said he d had discussions with both Buhlungu and fellow commissioner Dr Vuyo Mahlathi, and all parties agreed that a way had to be found on how outstanding UFH alumni could make a meaningful contribution to the institution.He said some solutions would be found as the conference continued with its discussions. zineg@dispatch.co.za