CCTV surveillance cameras operating on Wi-Fi and solar energy have gone live in parts of East London. Buffalo City Metro made the announcement yesterday when spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said the technology would make the metro a smart city that was safer for residents, tourists and investors.The R16-million project started in May last year. Cindi said the cameras, still in testing stages, went live in areas including the Esplanade, Duncan Village and Oxford Street intersections.The installation of the CCTV cameras forms part of the city s Fibre Network Upgrade. The ideal situation is that all the cameras should operate on solar and renewable energy to save electricity, said Cindi. The Duncan village one is live and is operating using renewable energy. Most of them are designed to operate according to the conditions of a certain area, like when there s no electricity or Wi-Fi they operate on solar. The areas with CCTV cameras include points and intersections at:BCM installed the cameras to help fight crime in the CBD, monitor and control traffic and for general monitoring of the areas under surveillance.The Duncan Village community police forum (CPF) said the cameras could help fight crime but whether they were operating or not was anyone s guess.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday Ludumo Salman said: What concerns us is that no one is actually sure that these cameras are working. A lot of crime happens daily but whether these cameras catch the incidences is a big guess. Salman said one of the cameras was strategically positioned at the busy Gemento traffic circle. That area is a crime hotspot taxi drivers and passengers get mugged there daily and the camera footage could really assist with evidence in court. Salman said the owner of a local tavern was shot and killed in December in front of a CCTV camera. It could have been of assistance in terms of evidence in court but we don t know whether the camera captured the incident. The CPF has called for even more cameras to be installed at the busy Douglas Smith highway, saying it was a haven for crime. Salman said crime is accelerated by too many drinking holes in the area.Nahoon ratepayers association member Christo Theart said the association welcomed the rollout of the CCTV cameras. My daughter lives in South Korea in a city of 25million people in Seoul. Their movements are captured on camera everywhere they go, so if you do something wrong you will be caught. Theart said the cameras were a fantastic initiative, especially at the beaches where crime was rife. It is very sad that our visitors don t want to go to Cove Rock or Eastern beach due to crime there so we hope these cameras will instill some sense of safety. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za