High school pupils took centre stage at the Eastern Cape legislature at the weekend when they reflected on Premier Phumulo Masualle s state of the province address (Sopa]. This was part of the annual Sopa schools debate championships started years ago by the provincial government.The pupils raised discussions on five topics: integrated human settlements with better healthcare and infrastructure; the pioneer maritime sector and industrial development in the province; and better access to quality education and competing socio-economic priorities; building cohesive communities and nation-building amid shrinking resources; and accelerating transformation of the economy to create jobs, stimulate rural development, land reform, food security and sustainable livelihoods.Topics were discussed in English, isiXhosa, Afrikaans and in Sesotho.The event saw 30 pupils from 22 schools around the province scrutinising Masualle s speech and even making recommendations on some issues. They also identified other areas which they believe the premier and education MEC Mandla Makupula should focus on.Asisipho Mdedelwa from Nqeba Senior Secondary in Graaff-Reinet, who scooped first place in the isiXhosa category and came third overall, said teachers and pupils were taking strain because the teacher shortage was still a problem in the province. At our school, we manage to perform very well with the limited teachers we have, but we could do so much better if we could get the teachers that are required, she said.Thandolwethu Tutu, a Grade 11 pupil at Ngwenyathi High School, one of two schools piloted for maritime studies, argued that more schools should be part of the maritime studies programme. Many skilled and unskilled labourers could get work opportunities with maritime studies and it could have a massive impact on our economy if we could maximise on the 800km coastline, said Tutu.Busiswa Mdingi, 17, from St Teresa Senior Secondary School in Sterkspruit, who spoke in Sesotho, said it was an honour to be among the pupils who participated in the debate. Not only does it improve confidence and public speaking, but we are in a wonderful position to engage with influential people, who can take our suggestions in consideration and they can also get direct feedback on some of the things they have been implementing in communities. Masualle said he was impressed with the quality of presentations, which echoed the pupils level of understanding, capabilities and readiness. Now I can consider early retirement because these pupils are the ones that are going to take our efforts to another level. Their presentations tell me that they have not only heard the Sopa, but fully understood what it means. It also indicates the message has been relayed to each of their families. They have given us great feedback about what is happening in their communities, which we can follow up on, he said.Makupula accepted the criticism and recommendations about the education department and commended the girls who dominated the debate as powerful forces .Manella Cekau of St Teresa Senior Secondary School in Joe Gqabi took the title of champion for this year, followed by Ongezekile Mei from Barkly East High, also in Joe Gqabi, and Asisipho Mdedelwa from Sarah Baartman. mbalit@dispatch.co.za