Since he was a Grahamstown schoolboy giving extra maths and science classes to peers, Mbulelo Plaatjie has derived pleasure from being a volunteer and now wants to prompt others to practise acts of kindness. Plaatjie, 44, has set up a Facebook-driven movement called Community Champions to encourage young people to volunteer their time to help others in whatever capacity they can think of. I was inspired by an American Facebook page called the Little Acts of Kindness Movement which suggests acts of kindness people can perform in their communities, and I thought it would be great to do that here too, said Plaatjie, who is a dedicated CHOC volunteer and the deputy director of the rental housing programme in the department of human settlements.Volunteering has been a mainstay of his life ever since he was a teenager at Nombulelo High School in Grahamstown and gave up his free time to help others with maths and science. I got hooked on volunteering it was like a drug, so when I was doing a BCom at Rhodes University I continued giving classes to matrics through [education NGO] Gadra. After university, Plaatjie continued sacrificing his time for the benefit of others and volunteered at the Heart Foundation in Port Elizabeth, before moving to Cape Town where he joined the Friends of the Red Cross and later the Amy Biehl Foundation. I co-wrote a book called All That I Am: Because They Made a Difference in My Life in which we interviewed people like Mangosuthu Buthelezi, Tony Leon and Raymond Ackerman about who had mentored them.Proceeds of the book went to the Amy Biehl Foundation.Now, as a CHOC volunteer, he fund-raises for the childhood cancer foundation and visits sick children at Frere Hospital s children s cancer ward. When I started talking to people about the Community Champions idea, young black men in my community said volunteering was for rich people. They think you need money to be a philanthropist, but if you have time to give that s all that matters. It s not about finances, it s about time. Plaatjie wants to see young people in schools and universities as well as young professionals help others in any way they can and hopes they will use the Community Champions South Africa Facebook page to post about their experiences. If people see others do something good, they might be encouraged to do an act of kindness. It can just be something small, like helping a child-headed household with their garden or giving them something to eat. NGOs can also post on the site if they need volunteers of if they have a wish list of needs. Acts of kindness help others, but they also put your own worries in perspective and give your life a sense of purpose. barbarah@dispatch.co.za