Fashionistas are in for a treat as local designers prepare to knock their socks off at the East London Fashion Walk next month. The annual fashion parade was relaunched on Saturday with a sneak preview of what is to come, with a handful of designers, who exhibited their designs during the weekend at Hemingways Mall.The event s founder, Siyanda Nela, 29, said the relaunch aimed to recognise the growth of the concept, which started in 2015. We started small with only one night only shows and we struggled to get sponsors but now things are looking up and more artists want to be a part of it. We have grown and this year we will have a three-day fashion show on April 27, 28 and 29 while on April 30 and May 1 we will have stalls for the designers to exhibit their stuff to sell. University of Fort Hare chemistry graduate Gugu Cosa, 34, a self-taught designer, said her brand Isabel Cosa allowed for easy movement and great flow . I like playing with light material with silhouettes and easy movement and obviously pretty stuff. So that s what people can look forward to seeing next month. Walter Sisulu University fashion graduate, Phindile Makuphula, 30, said doors had started opening for her when she first exhibited her designs on the Walk. It s been an incredible journey, but platforms like these really get us out there, but it s just that there aren t enough. Makuphula said she specialised in African prints long before they were saturating the market.Takazelwa Mhlami, 28, resigned as a financial advisor to follow her passion in fashion. Eastern Cape has so many talented designers, who need to step up and make their mark in the fashion industry opportunities like these are a good place to start, Mhlami said.She said she aspired to see a day when people would approach their local designers for every day wear.Another designer, Sinesipho Nkqiliso said she was passionate about evening wear and was looking forward to creating exquisite designs for the upcoming fashion show.Tickets are available at Computicket and designers interested in stalls can contact Siyanda on 083-379-6191. mbalit@dispatch.co.za