By ZINGISA MVUMVU, JOHNNIE ISAAC and ROCHELLE DE KOCKIn what is widely seen as undisguised manoeuvre to bolster the Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma campaign for presidency, President Jacob Zuma showed up unexpectedly at twin ANC leadership contests in the Eastern Cape and did not hide his preferences. The outcome of the conferences will have a strong bearing on the direction of the provincial conference in July and the ANC s December national elective conference, where a successor to Zuma will be named.Using his typical rhetoric in Nelson Mandela Bay, the president revealed the depth of the cleavage at the top of the ANC, coming out in unequivocal support for Andile Lungisa as chairman of the Nelson Mandela Bay region.Lungisa s election was in direct opposition to the directive on Wednesday of ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe to all provincial structures across the country, in a letter stating that the ANC constitution barred any members of the provincial executive committee (PEC) from serving on a lower structure.But Lungisa a PEC member who initially agreed to stand down defied Mantashe s directive and was elected by 71 delegates to the 57 votes his opponent, Tony Duba, received.In response only hours before Zuma s address, Mantashe said Lungisa would be dealt with through the mechanisms of the party for defying the constitution of the ANC.But Zuma appeared to share no such concerns.Turning to ANC provincial deputy chairman Sakhumzi Somyo, who oversaw the conference, Zuma said: You have brought me joy when you say the delegates have done their work last night, reflecting the will of the ANC of Nelson Mandela Bay .He continued: When we do things the wrong way, the ancestors get angry. That requires the elders to take up sticks to find the root cause. The ancestors agree now that Lungisa has been elected. An elated Lungisa could not contain the smile on his face at having Zuma s stamp of approval.The two held a private meeting, which lasted about five minutes, before Zuma headed back to the airport.At Mpekweni, where registration for the Amathole conference only started on Sunday morning instead of Saturday, national executive committee heavyweight Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula suggested the delays had been caused by some provincial leaders attempting to hijack the direction of the conference. I have been to countless ANC conferences but have never seen a conference delayed by three days, said Mapisa-Nqakula. We are held at ransom by individuals at the provincial office who want to influence directions of conferences because disputes were addressed yesterday [Saturday]. The Amathole regional secretary, Teris Ntuthu, has been clear in his support for the sitting provincial chairman Phumulo Masualle to run for a third term.And also in his support for Dlamini-Zuma as successor for the ANC presidency.Zuma, too, lamented infighting and disunity within ANC. We have a big responsibility to lead society instead of fighting among ourselves, he said. We spend too much time jostling against each other. I hope we are taking a turn now. We are failing to tell our comrades when they go wrong instead of stopping them in their tracks before it is too late and recalling them if they refuse to listen. Zuma also ruled out any possibility of his running for party presidency, thanking party members for giving him the opportunity to serve two terms. Next year I will no longer be talking as the president of the ANC [but] I will not disappear, I will be in my branch and we will meet as delegates and all gatherings of the ANC rest assured I will always be there. Masualle, meanwhile, arrived at Mpekweni where he gave the opening address.The Amathole conference will continue today.