The contents of the once popular Nahoon Arms pub, which closed abruptly two weeks ago amid arguing owners and unpaid staff, went under the hammer yesterday. About 90 people attended the brisk auction, including owners of restaurant and hospitality establishments in the city who snapped up solid bar furniture, kitchen equipment and liquor.Staff left high and dry when the bar closed without notice, owing them thousands in unpaid tips and wages said they were promised they would be paid from the proceeds of the sale.Auctioneer Mark Rose-Innes of Rose-Innes Auctions auctioned everything from branded bar ornaments to bains-marie and booze in the old English pub-themed bar, which was owned in partnership by couples Mike and Chrisanne Osner and Linda and Allen Gunn, who did not attend the auction.Chunky, high wooden table and chair sets sold for up to R4500, a flatscreen TV behind the bar went for R3700, and the establishment s computers and cash registers went for R7500. A decorative Johnny Walker mirror sold for R350.A bar counter-full of about 20 cases of beer and cider fetched R1600, which was considered a bargain of a lifetime by an onlooker.Greenfields pub owner Ivan Balk said he was hoping to bid on the pub s outside benches, which also attracted the interest of Angela Heathcote, who owns Angela s Coffee Shop in the same Beach Road strip.There was no sign of the pub and grub s staff, who were shocked to arrive at work on Friday, February 24 to be told by the Osners lawyer, Melissa Osborne, that the business had closed and they would have to wait to be paid by the proceeds of the auction. We wanted to attend, but I still haven t got another job and I have no money for a taxi, said former barkeeper and waitron Portia Mandiwa, who had worked at the pub since it opened in August 2015. I am owed R6327 in wages and tips and I ve been sick ever since it closed. I have no money for school fees or food. I really hope we get something from the auction, but will there really be enough? Former waitron and barman Farai Kaisa is owed R2095. We have high hopes but the landlord still has to be paid as well. Landlord Russell Seymour declined to be drawn on how much rental he was owed, saying this was a confidential business transaction , but said the auction proceeds would cover rent debt first, with the remainder going to the staff.Last night Seymour said the auction raised enough to cover his rental and staff wages.Seymour said a new restaurant and pub called the Mail Room, specialising in beer and pizza and run by Adam and Zina Iverson who also run the Cow Shed and Milk Shed nearby will open in the premises. barbarah@dispatch.co.za