It&#8217;s all systems go for the Bafana Bafana vs Angola soccer match in East London next Tuesday. The international friendly will kick off at 7pm at the Buffalo City Stadium.Business, government and police all confirmed yesterday they were gearing up for the spectacular event, which has been more than a decade in the making.Provincial sports, recreation, arts and culture spokesman Andile Nduna urged soccer fans to attend in droves and support their national team in action.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday on the sidelines of the city s Human Rights Day commemoration in King William s Town, excited Buffalo City Metro mayor Xola Pakati said: As you are aware, we will be hosting our national team for the first time as the city. This means our efforts at profiling the city as a sports destination of choice are yielding positive results. Our tourism sector will benefit most in economic spin-offs as a result of the game. Les Holbrook, Border-Kei Chamber of Business executive director said: Any kind of an international event for East London is welcome because we don t see enough of them. It is very welcome. It is going to be good for business and there is no question it will get the kind of support that it would be expecting. Bafana Bafana are trying very hard and we must acknowledge that they are doing their best. Holbrook went on to say many fans would want to come watch the national squad win. BCM always pulls out all stops to host a fantastic event, even if it is last minute. It is a bit of a pity it is on a Tuesday, not Saturday or Sunday. Sunday afternoon would have been the best, especially for soccer, but beggars can t be choosers we would like to have the game and we are very pleased to have the game and we must win the game, said Holbrook.Eastern Cape police spokeswoman Brigadier Marinda Mills said they had already made extensive progress regarding the planning of the event.She said the public would be advised on items that are not going to be allowed into the stadium. These usually include all alcoholic beverages and weapons of any sort, Mills said.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said the event meant the metro will be shown to millions of people and this would assist us on our tourism marketing objectives . Our facilities are of national standard. We are improving and maintaining them on an ongoing basis, Cindi said. 