Thieves plundering suburban homes have been making a beeline for jewellery boxes and safes containing fine gold necklaces, earrings and rings, indicating a lively market for stolen gold. Victims of house robberies have described how discerning burglars with an eye for fine pieces cast aside gold-plated and costume jewellery, pilfering only the most valuable pieces.Private investigator Christian Botha said there were a lot of illegitimate jewellery buyers in East London who were not registered with the police as they should be in terms of the Secondhand Goods Act. Some don t care if it is stolen. They often operate from the back of a hair salon or cellular shop. Sometimes they say they are buying coins but they are buying stolen jewellery. From there it goes to places like Port Elizabeth, where it is smelted. The Junktion Buy and Sell owner Anthony Ioannides agreed, saying illegal trade in precious metals was a huge problem .He said according to the law, reputable dealers had to ask for the seller s ID and sign a purchase order form before buying precious metals. We then have to hold onto it for seven days before we can sell to the refineries. My opinion is that the syndicates take it to the CBD where they know they can flog it because it s all a cash system. Within a day, it is in Johannesburg where it is bought illegally, melted and never seen again. Ioannides said it was possible that that crime s big boys in Johannesburg were smelting gold into bars. I think they use home-smelting techniques. If you have a blow torch and an ingot [gold bar mould], anyone with a bit of science knowledge can do it. He said gold had become more sought-after by thieves because it was easier to move. A gold chain is lighter and smaller than a flatscreen TV and it fits into a pocket. East London Jewel Exchange owner Stephan Pretorius also said many operators in the CBD did not have licences and were buying gold illegitimately. Obviously I get approached [by people selling stolen gold]. If they don t have an ID, I say sorry I can t help. Provincial police spokeswoman Marinda Mills said intelligence officers collected information and observed possible set-off areas where stolen property such as gold and silver was purchased from criminals. barbarah@dispatch.co.za