World-renowned saxophonist Andrew Young will be in East London on Thursday to perform at the Guild Theatre as part of his tour around South Africa. A self-taught saxophonist, Young, who was born in Liverpool in the UK, found himself in music by accident.At the age of eight he sneaked off to school with his sister s recorder and went over everything he d seen her do.As luck would have it, he was caught by his music teacher who saw his talent and gave him a clarinet.He taught himself how to play the hit song Amazing Grace, which he was made to perform in front of his entire school.This small moment, he says, sparked his love for music.Young went on to study music in London.In 1989, while working as a clarinetist in a symphony orchestra in Australia, he saw an advert for a Durban job.He applied and got the job and lived in South Africa for six years, making great musical strides.In 1994 he recorded his first solo album Soul People and it was a huge success, reaching number one spot on South African music charts.He also got to feature Zwai Bala on the album. South Africa has done a lot for me. The people accepted my music and I am grateful for that. Young has since released seven more albums.He s been on a tour of the country since the beginning of the month and is excited about coming to East London for the first time.The show he says, will be an insightful journey of his life in Liverpool and a tribute to the Beatles. The night will be about my love for Liverpool, where I am originally from, and where the Beatles are from too. It will be a night of music, film and anecdotes of the Beatles. South Africa has a special place in Young s heart.He says his time in the country is one of his fondest memories. A place is memorable because of its people. South Africans are so friendly. He will also be performing at the 10th anniversary of the Northern Arts Festival this weekend in Port Elizabeth, and will be back in the country again in July.lCatch him live at the Guild Theatre tomorrow at 7.30pm. Tickets are R120 per person. nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za