&nbsp;In an effort to address text book shortages and bridge the digital divide in underprivileged and rural schools in the province, a private company has developed a digital content library that has CAPS aligned textbooks, story books, educational videos and exam revision papers. The content is saved on a server and projected onto a projector screen where pupils can view and use the learning materials stored on the device.The Edu-Tech solution developed by Streetwise consists of a projector that has built-in Wi-Fi connectivity, speakers, a USB port, 19-inch screen, a hard drive that contains the content or applications to be used and a server.The device operates in a similar manner to a computer.Speaking to the Saturday Dispatch, Shaun Fourie from Streetwise said the Edu-Tech solution was specifically developed for rural and under-serviced schools. The project has been launched in the Eastern Cape to assist in alleviating the many challenges faced in our province, such as textbook shortages, he said. We aim to provide at least 1000 schools with the Edu-Tech solution over the next two to three years and by doing so we will bridge the digital divide experienced in these schools. This digital content library has text books for Grade 4 to 12 pupils, more than 1300 story books in English, Xhosa and Afrikaans for Grade 1 to 7, 6000 educational videos for all grades, live and local news feeds, exam revision papers and even an encyclopedia. Instead of taking off-the- shelf technologies that work in the best-of-the-best schools we have developed a solution that is feasible and operationally sustainable for the rural school environment, taking into account the challenges faced in these schools such as bandwidth availability, textbook deliveries, security, computer literacy and electricity challenges.Makunga Mvalo Public School in Newlands was the first beneficiary of the device when it was handed to them yesterday thanks to a Red Alert sponsorship.Speaking yesterday at the handover which took place at the school, Vanessa du Preez from Red Alert said when Streetwise approached them with the project the company did not hesitate to climb on board. I have no doubt this tool will stimulate the minds of young pupils and I am certain it will definitely make classrooms more exciting, said Du Preez.The CEO of Small Project Foundations, Dr Paul Cromhout said the school was a fitting beneficiary. I am delighted this project was introduced to this school, which has dedicated teachers. Technology can t work on its own but if you bring it to dedicated teachers you will certainly see magic, said Cromhout.School principal Herbert Sebetshu said the device would have a great impact on the school and the pupils. The teachers are excited and the pupils will not to miss a day of school because for them it s like watching a movie when teachers use the device for their lesson. It is also the pupils first time having technology at their finger tips, said Sebetshu. arethal@dispatch.co.za