It was sea of red outside the Constitutional Court on Wednesday as Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) supporters and university student leaders gathered to back detained Durban University of Technology student leader Bonginkosi Khanyile. Clad in their signature red berets and T-shirts thousands of EFF supporters held a march outside the highest court in the land.They chanted songs and carried placards demanding the release of Khanyile.Khanyile has approached the Constitutional Court on an urgent basis seeking leave to appeal against an order of the Supreme Court of Appeal which turned down his bid to be released on bail.The student leader was on bail for charges levelled against him in February when he was arrested in September. He has been in custody since September 27.This follows failed attempts to be released in the lower courts after he violated his bail condtions.At the march Fees Must Fall leader Mcebo Dlamini described Khanyile as a committed activist and a leader of note . We are here to support Bonginkosi and we are also driven by commitment and conviction to say this is a legitimate cause a cause that is worth us being here. Wherever he is he must not think he is forgotten. His people and his peers are with him in spirit Dlamini said.Rendani Nematswerani the EFF student command s deputy secretary-general said the #FeesMustFall campaign will continue until they attained free education. #FeesMustFall is about free education and it s a movement that will continue until we attain free education.He said students like Khanyile were victimised while fighting for a good cause. We hope the Constitutional Court can resolve this. We hope Bonginkosi will be freed today Nematswerani said.He said the state would be rendering itself useless if it denied Bonginkosi his release. We will seek another solution if he fails. Khanyile a final year Durban University of Technology public administration student and EFF representative is facing eight charges including those of public violence illegal gathering and inciting violence. He was arrested with 28 other students.