A shortage of accommodation in the Walter Sisulu University has led to some students being housed in an unfinished building in East London s Amalinda suburb. The building is one of many being leased by the university to accommodate its thousands of students.Students said when they moved into the double-storey building two Fridays ago, they found their new home in a dangerous condition.A WSU student, who met with the Dispatch team at the site on Monday, said: As much as we are desperate for a place to stay, that does not mean that we have to stay on a construction site. Our lives are at risk here. Balconies were without railings and cables were hanging from the roof in some blocks, while construction workers were still digging trenches on site.Another student complained that they had to cross the dangerous Woolwash Road to access the building. We can get hit by vehicles crossing this road, and taxis are far away. Both wanted to remain anonymous for fear of victimisation.WSU recently built a R99-million residence at the Potsdam Campus, which now houses about 380 students. But because of financial constraints, WSU cannot keep up with the demand for student housing.WSU spokeswoman Yonela Tukwayo said the need for student accommodation was dire. There was a desperate plea to accommodate students that were displaced and sleeping in lecture halls. This [Amalinda] building was viewed by student affairs and the SRC prior to occupation. The buildings occupied by students are cordoned off from the phase that is still under construction, said Tukwayo.She said they were leasing blocks of flats in areas such as Quigney, Southernwood and Amalinda to address the housing shortage. The building in question is part of a private development that we are leasing for our students. She said at full capacity, the building would accommodate 150 students. At the moment, only 65 students are there. The property owners allowed us to take occupation of the building and we were under the impression that it met all the necessary requirements for occupation since the owner has vast experience in construction, said Tukwayo.Rhett Shaw, from the construction company, said the project was programmed in phases and the portion where the students are housed, was a completed portion. The balconies are not accessible as the doors have been closed in from inside. They pose no danger to students. All electrical installations to the blocks have a certificate of compliance certifying that the installation is safe and workmanship is guaranteed, said Shaw.Shaw showed the Dispatch certificates to prove that the building was ready to be occupied and had met all the requirements. bonganif@dispatch.co.za