Twelve pupils from Ntafufu Senior Secondary School in Lusikisiki say their first visit to the UK last week had left a lasting impression on them. The trip to London, the first time any of them had flown on an aeroplane, was organised by London-based educational exchange charity Both (Broaden Out Their Horizons) and supported by global travel search platform, Cheapflights, whose staff helped raise the costs required to fly the Ntafufu students over.One of the pupils, Lona Bandezi, said London had been very inspiring. Being there has made me think hard about my future and career. The students there are very nice and I am thankful that I went. Zethu Mkontwana said they had explored the world-famous city and got to experienced everything from the London Underground to the London Eye. We also spent time at the exchange partner school Elizabeth Garrett School in Islington taking part in lessons and sharing insights in to our lives with the other pupils. I also enjoyed the visit to the science museum because I got a practical taste of all the lessons we get back in school, said Mkontwana. They [UK pupils] made me feel confident in myself because they showed us how we were unique and how there was strength in that. They encouraged us to embrace our differences and not feel inferior because of them, she said.Khanya Mlambo said education was important because if he was not in school he would not have had the opportunity to go overseas. The highlight for me is the mere fact that I was in London. I never imagined myself walking in those streets but it happened and its an experience I will always remember, said Mlambo.He said he would cherish visiting the Emirates Stadium, home to his favourite football club Arsenal.Managing director of Cheapflights, Andrew Shelton, said it had been a pleasure meeting the Ntafufu pupils. We loved having them in the office learning about who we are and why we believe that travel is vital in establishing an open view of the world. They even got the opportunity to design an educational app, and got an insight in to the technology products that they use. We hope that the memories and lessons from their trip stay with the students for a long time, and that they continue to search out and visit places and people that they can learn from in the future. ziphon@dispatch.co.za