ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe has endorsed deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa to take over the party presidency from Jacob Zuma.  Should Zuma resist handing power over to his deputy, warned Mantashe, there would be no smooth transition but rather “chaos” in the governing party. Mantashe was speaking United Apostolic Church (UAAC) in Vhembe, Limpopo yesterday. He cited examples of how the ANC has struggled to find peace in previous instances wherein the outgoing president resisted handing power over to their deputy. A case in point, he said, was post 2007 Polokwane conference wherein former president Thabo Mbeki contested Zuma and was defeated, causing unprecedented divisions and a formation of a splinter party – Cope. To avoid a repetition of the Polokwane aftermath, Mantashe suggested that Ramaphosa be allowed to elevate to the ANC top job. Mantashe also took a veiled swipe at ANC presidential contender Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma saying: “The ANC will never elect a woman President. It will elect a President of the ANC, male or female.” According to reports, Dlamini-Zuma hitback at Mantashe;s endorsement of Ramaphosa immediately accusing the SG of not being a “true cadre of the ANC”. Dlamini-Zuma was quoted as saying: ” ANC elections are a democratic process that is done by the branches of the ANC, anyone who predicts chaos in the ANC when the branches are exercising their democratic right is not a true cadre of the ANC.” ANC presidential candidate Lindiwe Sisulu has questioned the struggle credentials of Gwede Mantashe, the party’s secretary-general, and blasted him for what she claimed was an abuse of his freedom for personal gain. The vocal Sisulu blamed Mantashe for a weakened tripartite alliance, saying it had become weaker on his watch… October 16, 2017 In "Featured" President Jacob Zuma said something to ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe‚ deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and treasurer general Zweli Mkhize to make them change their minds about his cabinet reshuffle‚ according to TV news channel ANN7. ANN7 reported on Wednesday night that Zuma had questioned whether the ANC leadership would… April 6, 2017 In "Featured" Workers stood their ground yesterday and refused to be addressed by President Jacob Zuma at the main Workers’ Day rally organised by Cosatu in Bloemfontein. Cosatu leaders cut the rally short, ending it without Zuma or any union leaders delivering speeches. Singing, heckling workers also rejected other ANC leaders including… May 2, 2017 In "Featured"