The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) says it will not support Cosatu’s calls for a socio-economic strike on Wednesday which it describes as “an act of desperation”. Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim said Numsa viewed the calls for a strike against the very government which Cosatu was in alliance with as nothing more than a desperate attempt by the trade federation to remain relevant. “Cosatu called for all workers to go on strike against state capture and corruption. The irony is that the federation is very much a part of the system of ‘kleptocracy’ and ‘neopatrimonialism’ which has captured the ANC‚” Jim said in a statement. “Cosatu has been exposed as a hollow mouthpiece for ANC factions. It has failed to act in the interests of the working class. It has been reduced to simply rubber stamping the ANC’s neo-liberal agenda which is responsible for high levels of poverty‚ inequality‚ and unemployment in the country. The decision by Cosatu to go on strike is an attempt to distract from its glaring failure as a labour movement‚” Jim charged. “When Cosatu calls for a strike against state capture‚ they are in fact calling for a strike against themselves because they are part of the very machinery which is being used to oppress workers every day‚” he added. Trade union federation Cosatu promises a peaceful demonstration when it embarks on a one-day national strike against state capture on Wednesday. “Though this is a national strike‚ we are not anarchic. We will not be disturbing any services. We are aware that we have the potential to shut down schools‚… September 26, 2017 In "Politics" IF Numsa does not explain why it should stay in Cosatu it will be expelled this week, Nehawu said on Monday. Numsa had to give its reasons at Cosatu's 7th central executive committee meeting on Friday, or be expelled from the union federation on that day, National Education, Health, and… November 3, 2014 In "News" The union that will replace the National Union of Metalworkers (Numsa) in Cosatu says it is wrapping up preparations to join the troubled trade union federation. Former Numsa president Cedric Gina told the Daily Dispatch yesterday the Metal and Allied Workers’ Union of SA (Mewusa) would this week meet with… November 10, 2014 In "News"