While South Africans celebrated Heritage Day on Sunday many people around the globe were possibly a little surprised – and perhaps even relieved – to wake up to discover that the world was little changed and had in fact not ended.  Many had feared that Saturday would be their last day on Earth after a Christian numerologist David Meade had predicted it would end on that day. According to reports‚ his theory was that a so-called Planet X‚ also known as Nibiru‚ would pass Earth on September 23‚ causing volcanic eruptions‚ tsunamis and earthquakes. Citing biblical verses in Luke 21:25 and 26‚ he said that recent events such as the recent solar eclipse witnessed in the US and Hurricane Harvey were signs of the apocalypse. September 23 was pinpointed using codes from the Bible and also a “date marker” shown by the pyramids of Giza in Egypt‚ the British newspaper The Sun reported. However‚ NASA was quick to dismiss the claims as a hoax. “Nibiru and other stories about wayward planets are an Internet hoax‚” the US space agency said in a statement‚ pointing out that Planet X in fact did not even exist. And on Sunday‚ Meade reportedly said the end was still nigh – but not just yet. Fox News quoted him as saying that Saturday merely marked the beginning of a series of catastrophic events to occur over several weeks. He told the Washington Post: “The world is not ending‚ but the world as we know it is ending. A major part of the world will not be the same the beginning of October.” So carry on braaing – apparently you’ve nothing to worry about …..at least for the next few weeks. One way or another we live in dangerous and stressful times. Close to home it’s political shenanigans; further afield it’s the rantings of a dangerous and unpredictable tyrant who wants to blow up parts of the world; then there are topsy-turvy weather events; and finally a “rogue” planet on its… September 15, 2017 In "News" Police and emergency services feared the worst when they responded to the scene of a truck accident on Wednesday at the same intersection where a truck ploughed into vehicles three years ago‚ killing 23 people. Wednesday’s collision occurred on the M13 in Pinetown‚ with a truck reportedly smashing into several… November 23, 2016 In "News" The five pools at Joan Harrison will be open to the public in three weeks, said Buffalo City Metro (BCM) yesterday. City spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said the pipes and fittings for the main and diving pools would be repaired and all five pools would have their plumbing upgraded and old… September 1, 2016 In "News"