Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini has lashed out at the provincial government‚ accusing them of failing to pay him what he deserves. The monarch was speaking at a King Shaka Zulu commemoration in Stanger‚ north of Durban‚ on Sunday. The king bemoaned what he described as a lack of financial recognition‚ saying that he received no “stipend” from the state. Zwelithini cashes in an annual salary of over R1million and is allocated a budget of nearly R60 million by the office of the KwaZulu-Natal Premier. “There’s no money I get from the government‚ because even the provincial government doesn’t recognise me‚” he said. “I don’t get a stipend…there is no money I get from government. I don’t get paid because the provincial government doesn’t recognise me and the stipend I deserve as the Zulu King‚” he added. The financial affairs of the king and the royal household were brought into sharp focus in April during the provincial budget speech. The Royal Household — which is a sub-programme falling under the office of the premier following the abolishment of the Royal Household Department in December 2014 — received R58.8-million in the 2017/18 year. Some R16.5-million of that was ring fenced for the Royal Household Trust to cater for the remuneration of staff‚ seven board members‚ as well as the queens’ expenses‚ including travel and accommodation. The budget allocation to the monarch has previously drawn consternation. During his budget speech‚ Premier Willies Mchunu said that the Royal Household Trust was fundamentally responsible for fundraising and commercialisation of the king’s grazing land. “So far there has not been any visible achievement in fundraising activities and this matter will be addressed with the Trust as a matter of urgency with a view to improve the work of the Trust in this aspect‚” he said. Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini wants to be paid for soil used by the government to build infrastructure projects such as roads and RDP houses on the Ingonyama Trust land. The king is so determined to benefit from the sand used on his land that he wants to summon Human Settlements… October 22, 2016 In "News" King Goodwill Zwelithini has told the African National Congress (ANC) to step aside and let him lead his people if it is unable to. The Zulu monarch‚ according to a report on IOL‚ said he would be able to take over the reins because: “God gave me powers to lead.”… September 6, 2016 In "Politics" By: Nashira Davids And Daniel Meyer King Goodwill Zwelithini is not bothered by the alleged rumpus he caused when he visited an eatery in Cape Town recently‚ a spokesman has said. People took to social media to voice their outrage at his entourage‚ who had apparently told patrons to leave… July 21, 2017 In "News"