Cambridge police are investigating a case of a missing person following the disappearance of a 37-year-old woman who worked at the police station. Thembakazi Amelia Spayile, a data capturer at the station, was last seen in June when she reported for duty and never again. According to Cambridge police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi, her family and the employer got “very concerned” when she failed to report for duty since June. No one has also been in contact with her since. Mbi said Cambridge police were now investigating a case of a missing person. “We request and plead with anyone who has information about her whereabouts or any information that can assist police to find her, to contact the investigating officer Sergeant Lwazi Benya on 083-329-5348 or 086-001-0111.” He was originally let off the hook after his first arrest a fortnight ago due to lack of evidence. Port Elizabeth police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge yesterday said that as part of an ongoing clampdown on drugs in the Nelson Mandela Metro, police members from Motherwell Operational Command Centre (OCC) confiscated 21 bags of dagga which were being transported in a white Toyota Quantum panel van this week. “The arrest and confiscation occurred just after midnight on September 20 in the Zwide area when the vehicle was pulled over by the Motherwell OCC members during a crime prevention operation. “Members were surprised to find the same suspect who they arrested on September 10 in the Govan Mbeki area which is close to where he was arrested this week. “In that case, he was arrested for the possession of 26 bags of dagga with an estimated street value of R1.2-million,” said Beetge. He said the man was released due to lack of evidence then. In this most recent case, the suspect was found in possession of 21 bags of dagga which weighed in at more than 600kg with an estimated street value of R1.5-million. The Toyota panel van which the suspect was driving, was also confiscated by the police. He was due to appear in the New Brighton Magistrate’s Court yesterday, but according to Beetge, his case was not put on the court roll. “Unfortunately, the suspect has again not appeared in court. The case has been sent back to the police for further investigation,” he said. According to police spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa, the suspect was arrested after detectives raided his home on Thursday. “The suspect has been terrorising the area for the past nine months. He was charged with multiple cases of armed robberies. Two of five missing people sought by Eastern Cape police have been found dead. Yesterday Port Elizabeth police said a decomposed body, believed to be 37-year-old Unathi Bless, who went missing from that metro’s Greenacres shopping mall on August 31, was found dumped in Motherwell’s Kamvelihle township. Mount Road police… September 26, 2017 In "News" A Beacon Bay woman unwittingly led police to the body of a Mdantsane taxi driver who had been hijacked and later murdered in Cambridge on Sunday evening. Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi, said the 27-year-old driver, who cannot be named until his next-of-kin have identified him, was hijacked in NU9. He… June 21, 2016 In "News" A police clerk reported missing by police and her family last month, after she last reported for duty in June, has returned out of the blue. Thembakazi Amelia Spayile’s father father, Zola, said his daughter, 37, walked into the Cambridge Police barracks where she stays on Thursday, four months after… October 10, 2017 In "News"