A Braelyn pre-school principal was gutted last week after arriving at her Clements Kadalie Daycare Centre and finding it had been burgled for the fifth time in three months. In last week’s burglary the early childhood development centre, which caters for 105 toddlers, had two iron security gates stolen. When the spate of burglaries started in the June holidays, the newly sponsored stove, fridge, microwave, crockery and cutlery, as well as the children’s nap time mattresses, were stolen. Nomabelu Gudla, who opened the doors to her daycare centre 16 years ago, said she feared for the children’s safety. “They cleaned us out. They always break down the same door to gain access to the property. It feels like these people who have been robbing us want me to close my doors but I can’t because this community depends on me to take care of their children,” she said. Gudla said she had opened several cases with the police but they had yet to respond to her latest cries. “They [the police] came on previous times when I reported the cases but nothing came from it.” While the Clements Kadalie Daycare is state-subsidised, they received further private sponsorship from a German businessman. The staff at the daycare is now scraping together what they can to make it through each day as the centre is an empty shell, with just a few toys and tables and chairs. The daycare was among the recipients of last month’s Buffalo City Metro R1.4-million grants-in-aid hand-over and received R10000. “With the amount we received I now have to use it to safeguard our premises with sturdier security measures.” — oreillya@tisoblackstar.co.za The Haven Wellness Centre in Parkridge which cares and cooks for the sick, elderly and vulnerable people in the community, has been crippled by a series of burglaries. The founder of the centre, Eurina Stowman, said the centre has been burgled four times in the past two months – and… May 10, 2016 In "News" Parkside Primary School might re-open next Monday if the department of education delivers on its promise to have the school fixed by then. Yesterday, disgruntled parents barricaded the school gates, preventing department officials and service providers from leaving the premises without giving them answers. The school was trashed during the… January 17, 2017 In "News" The principal of the troubled Bhisho Youth Care Centre Sindiswa Matyhila-Mankazana yesterday made a desperate plea to authorities to do something about conditions at the centre, “before someone loses a life”. Matyhila-Mankazana said workers at the centre, including educators, security guards, cooks and cleaners, feared for their lives every time… November 20, 2015 In "News"