While thousands of ratepayers at the cash-strapped Inxuba Yethemba local municipality faced blackouts a week ago, its council went ahead and endorsed the purchase of two new executive cars at a cost of R1.2-million.  Mayor Ray Shweni confirmed that the municipality had bought a Ford Everest, which ranges between R460000 and R570000, recently. This is as the municipality negotiates with Eskom on how to settle a R440-million bill dating back to 2010. Eleventh-hour negotiations involving provincial treasury led to the municipality’s power supply interruptions being averted in recent weeks. Shweni, who is also in line to receive a new car, said he was using his private car which is not financed by council. He confirmed to the Dispatch that he considered purchasing either a Volkswagen Tiguan, Chevrolet Captiva or Trailblazer by Chevrolet, which also cost between R400000 and half a million each. The municipality, which covers small towns such as Cradock and Middleburg as well as farming areas, has a total population of about 65000, with about a quarter of this number being unemployed, according to 2011 Stats SA figures. The town’s annual budget for this year is R305-million. The DA in the council accused the ANC-led council of having failed to prioritise the basic needs of the community. In a statement, the DA head of finance in council Handri Voster said councillors opted for opulence instead. The mayor defended the cars purchases amid the electricity bill woes saying the R1.2-million had been ring-fenced for the cars since January. “The municipality is small and has [a small] revenue base. But the cars form part of the tools of trade as councillors cannot be expected to hitch-hike to carry out council duties. The Ford Everest was bought using the RT57 which allows government to buy cars directly from manufacturers at reduced prices,” Shweni said. East London attorney Roger Smith has lost his legal battle with Buffalo City Metro (BCM) to reclaim a valuable farm between Beacon Bay and Gonubie. The municipality had bought the land to develop into a cemetery, and then changed its plans. Smith and the metro have been in and out… December 19, 2015 In "News" BUFFALO City ratepayers have forked out almost R1-million on the cost of renting venues for council meetings since last September when renovations to the East London City Hall were undertaken. The costs are expected to rise even further as BCM said it would continue using outside venues until December this… June 29, 2015 In "News" THE purchase of a new R700000 vehicle for the mayor of a small rural municipality, reportedly without the blessing of council, is being questioned. Opposition parties in Mbizana municipality said the new mayoral vehicle was presented to council on Monday – two weeks after being purchased. It is one of… April 3, 2014 In "News"