The South African Student Congress (Sasco) has recalled three of its leaders at the University of Fort Hare s East London campus. Eastern Cape chairman Luyanda Tenge yesterday confirmed their decision to remove Sasco-deployed student representative council (SRC) premier Sonwabiso Mamkeli, general secretary Ntokozo Ntseto and deputy secretary Dineo Selemela.This is after the three decided to contest next week s SRC elections as ANC Youth League deployees a decision Sasco did not take kindly to.Tenge said the three were sabotaging Sasco s campaign to advance their own interests.Mamkeli has since been replaced by another Sasco deployee in the SRC, Ahlomile Mafu, who holds the student services officer portfolio. The other two have not yet been replaced.Mamkeli described the allegations that they were sabotaging Sasco as lies . We never even attempted to sabotage Sasco in any way. We carried the mandate we were given by Sasco [of recruiting voters behind the student movement] with diligence, said Mamkeli.The cracks between Sasco and ANCYL at the campus on the eve of the April 12 elections come at the worst of times as the ANC- aligned student movement is still recovering from its bruising loss to the Democratic Alliance Student Organisation (Daso) at its main campus in Alice.Sasco has been losing SRC elections to Daso since 2015.Mamkeli said Sasco had now blown a golden opportunity to regain control at UFH as Daso will not be contesting next week s SRC elections in Alice.This is after failing to meet the deadline for submission of candidate lists.Mamkeli vowed yesterday that they would still contest the elections without the blessing of Sasco provincial leaders. They [Sasco] have declared war with the ANCYL. We are going to contest these elections and chances of us winning are very high, said Mamkeli.Tenge admitted yesterday that having the ANCYL contesting against Sasco at the campus would harm their campaign to retain the campus. Those votes that were supposed to come to us will go to them [ANCYL]. It is not going to be easy, but we are still confident that we will win, said Tenge. East London students have faith in us and believe in the organisation, added Tenge.Similar divisions manifested last week between the ANCYL and Sasco at Walter Sisulu University s Mthatha campus.Five ANCYL members were arrested by police in connection with the stabbing of a Sasco leader.The five appeared before the Mthatha Magistrate s Court on Thursday on charges of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm. sinom@disptch.co.za