Eastern Cape police believe a state firearm belonging to one of their own was used to murder Sakhekile Ndudula, the chief of staff in social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi s office. The allegations are contained in legal documents from an East London law firm representing Sergeant Zola Mgodeli in a R500 000 damages claim against the minister of police.Ndudula died after being shot seven times in his Cambridge West home on September 14 last year.His wife Bulelwa Ndudula was arrested and charged with his murder. She was later released on R20 000 bail by the Grahamstown High Court.The state told the East London Magistrate s Court last month that the matter was ready for trial in the East London High Court and a trial date will be set on May 8.Mgodeli s lawsuit comes from a March 30 incident where the lead investigating officer in the high profile murder case Captain Silumani Somkence accompanied by four other armed officers raided the sergeant s Mdantsane house.According to the legal documents Mgodeli was allegedly accused of having an affair by the officers in front of his wife and three children, with Ndudula s widow Bulelwa.It was further alleged the relationship between Mgodeli and Bulelwa had started while Ndudula was still alive.Mgodeli, who is stationed at the port of entry in the East London harbour, has denied any wrongdoing and secured the services of SN Jiba Attorneys to represent him.The firm has issued a notice to sue to the national police commissioner on his behalf.The officers were said to have further humiliated Mgodeli by alleging that they harboured suspicion that the firearm used in the murder of the late Mr Ndudula was the state issue which was allocated by SAPS. Contacted for comment, police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said: At this stage we are only prepared to indicate that a firearm has been taken in for ballistic testing. We cannot comment further at this stage. Mgodeli s legal representative Advocate Mike Maseti said: Mr Mgodeli is a choirmaster and he is part of the police music and culture association. Because Mrs Ndudula is also a choirmaster for her school he got an opportunity to interact with her only in that space. Maseti said they had sent the letter two weeks ago and under normal circumstances the national commissioner would only respond in a month or two s time to acknowledge receipt of the letter of demand.Maseti said police investigators were desperate . They are going for desperate measures because we are waiting for a high court date but now you can see that they are still busy with the investigation. How can we be waiting for a trial date while police are still pursuing some investigation to confirm the correctness of the angle that they are taking? 