Mandla Tozama, 36, finally underwent long-awaited surgery on Tuesday to correct a serious squint which he had had since childhood. The surgery, costing just over R15000, was performed at no cost and undertaken as a team effort between Dr Bernard de Boer, who is a specialist ophthalmologist, Dr Andre Evans of KeiMed Anaesthesiology and the Life Eye Hospital.Johannesburg-born and bred Tozama has been travelling between Johannesburg and East London in search of work. During the trips he has sat on the roadside, offering his services to potential employers.Tozama s surgery was delayed due to a lack of cash and work commitments. I have always wanted to have my eyes fixed, but was delayed on many occasions. In 2003, a woman I worked for in Johannesburg spoke to one of the hospitals to have my eyes fixed, but when the opportunity came I had already committed myself to other piece jobs in order to support my family, said Tozama.Good Samaritan doctor De Boer approached Tozama after six months of seeing him at the side of the road near a Nahoon retail store looking for jobs. I always drive past Nahoon SuperSpar and noticed Mandla was suffering from strabismus (squint). I communicated this with Life St James Hospital management and we decided to do the surgery for free. One day, I decided to approach Mandla and told him to visit the practice to have his eyes assessed. He said there was a misconception that people suffering from strabismus had low IQs. Although there is no link, research has, however, shown that people who are squint struggle to get employment and do business with other people. I hope that the surgery will be life-changing and make Mandla more employable, he said.Eastern Cape regional manager at Life hospitals, Bruce Janssens, said the group was delighted to have afforded someone this kind of opportunity. Time, expertise and materials have been provided free of charge to make this happen and we are proud to be involved in such a heart-warming procedure. Making life better is what we do and this is an opportunity to give back to our community and change the lives of our patients for the better, said Janssens.Tozama s mother and his seven-year-old daughter, who are based in Johannesburg, were also very excited to hear that Tozama was finally having his eyes fixed.A few minutes after the surgery, De Boer said it was a success. All went well and we wish the best for Mandla, he said. sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za