The Peddie and Tyefu police are investigating a case of murder, kidnapping and theft of a motor vehicle after a woman reported missing was found dead today next to her husband&#8217;s stolen vehicle. Both the vehicle and the 25-year-old woman were reported missing yesterday by the distraught husband. Grahamstown police said the woman was left behind by the husband in a car parked at the Peddie Magistrate&#8217;s court. &#8220;He left his wife in the car with his cell phone and car keys. When he returned to the place where he parked his car, both the car and his wife was nowhere to be seen.&#8221;Police spokeswoman captain Mali Govender said the woman was discovered this morning at Qamnyana Administrative Area.&#8220;The matter was reported to the local SAPS, who immediately started a search for the 25 year old woman and the vehicle. The search continued this morning and the vehicle was located at the Qamnyana Administration Area in the Tyefu Policing Area. During the investigation and search of the vicinity , the body of a female identified as the missing woman was found close by.&#8221; Govender said a postmortem will be conducted to establish the cause of death. Govender said specialist investigators worked on the scene for several hours collecting evidence and clues. An appeal is made to any person who will be able to assist in the investigation to contact the crime stop number on 08600 10111. All information supplied is strictly confidential and the caller has a choice to remain anonymous. Brigadier David Kanuka the Cluster Commander of Grahamstown, who guided the search team since the report expressed his sincere condolences to the family and friends of the slain victim and assured the community that he will leave no stone unturned to bring these ruthless perpetrators to book.Kanuka said, &#8220;I have a team of experienced detectives working on these cases which I&#8217;m also closely monitoring.&#8221; Kanuka appealed to the community to assist the SAPS in their investigations.