While it is highly recommended to have a formal education, some successful people like billionaire Richard Branson have shown that having a qualification does not necessarily guarantee success in life. Failing matric might be a crushing blow as it might derail someone s plans but thousands of people over the years have overcome their failures with success.The bottom line? Failing matric is not the end of the world.And while former Buffalo City Metro spokesman Keith Ngesi, who left his communications manager job to start his own online radio, Keith Ngesi Radio, has not quite reached the Branson status, he too tasted failure 24 years ago when he failed matric.Ngesi, who tried committing suicide after failing, took to Facebook to motivate the vulnerable souls who did not make the cut when the matric results were released. Success is not necessarily defined by the first-time pass. Failure is another phase of success, of course that thought will come when you go through a squeeze point like it did to me but God wanted to achieve something through me and his plan included me failing matric. Let s not elevate these matric results; it s the system of the world not God s plan for each of us, he wrote.Others like multi-award winning rap artist and producer Cassper Nyovest, real name Refiloe Maele Phoolo, dropped out of school before reaching Grade 12.In 2015, Nyovest signed the biggest deal in the South African music industry when he partnered with MTN for R10-million.The rapper, who owns two Bentleys, a Rolls Royce, Mercedes-Benz C63 and a bus has made a fortune off endorsement deals. When I put up pictures of my cars and watches it is to inspire I want to inspire kids to believe that they can change the world. Nyovest made history last year when he became the first South African artist to fill up the 20000 capacity venue, The Ticketpro Dome alone, and achieved the same feat when he almost filled Orlando stadium last year.South African Depression and Anxiety Group spokeswoman Janine Shamos said pupils who failed matric or attained poor symbols still had a chance to improve their results with supplementary exams. The only thing they can do is find alternative options like rewriting or going back to school. There is that pressure of what people will say if you fail, but I urge them to be selfish and only think about themselves. Do not mind what people say, start planning your own future, she said.Other successful multimillionaires who did not pass matric or the equivalent include American rapper and businessman Jay Z, who is said to be worth more than R7-billion according to People Magazine, inventor and businessman Steve Jobs, who was the co-founder, chairman, and chief executive officer of Apple Inc, CEO and majority shareholder of Pixar.Oscar Award winning actress Catherine Zeta Jones also dropped out of school to pursue a stage career in London.Shamos said they had trained counsellors managing their toll-free lines for acute stress and severe depression.They can be reached on 0800-414243 or send an SMS to 31393 for free advice from 8am to 8pm every day. qaqambam@dispatch.co.za&nbsp;