Shaka Sisulu the person implicated in a case where a PR practitioner is seeking R2.2m for the work she did for the ANC s election war room last year says he believes the court case against the ANC was intended to extort money from the party. PR practitioner Sihle Bolani mentioned in court papers that Sisulu convened a meeting in a Johannesburg hotel in May where the media team was introduced to ANC general manager Ignatius Jacobs.In her report on the operation attached to her application Bolani said she was paid R49 500 for the work she did.When she asked Sisulu about long overdue invoices Sisulu s response was I ll be honest; there s no money. Your money was spent on t-shirts. Bolani s case was struck off the roll in the high court in Johannesburg on Tuesday. Judge Leonie Windell said Bolani s application was not urgent.In a statement released through his twitter account Sisulu said the news reports claiming that he spearheaded the covert black ops unit to discredit the opposition were false and intended to discredit his reputation and that of the ANC.Sisulu said while he worked briefly with Bolani as part of a media team it was certainly not a covert black ops unit. I neither possess the skill nor the knowledge of what a black ops is. Sisulu admitted to volunteering his time and abilities for and on behalf of the ANC. I have done so in every election campaign for the past 18 years. He said as volunteers of the ANC their role was to promote the values and virtues of the movement to potential voters not to discredit the opposition. As volunteers we are not paid all of us hundreds of thousands of volunteers participate for the love of the ANC. Sisulu said as volunteers they were made aware of the provisions o f the electoral code and were careful to not break the law in their electioneering work. To do the work of electioneering we as volunteers use our own resources and where these need to be supplemented we ask for donations and sponsorships from other ANC supporters. He said he had never witnessed or heard of any volunteers receiving an amount of R50m or anything remotely close to that. This R50m figure that news reports have bandied about is clearly a figment of someone s imagination. Sisulu said he was certain he would be given an opportunity to present himself in the case by Bolani and would be able to dispel many of these spurious allegations that had emerged. I can only assume that the case itself accompanied by news reports that came up before the matter even went before the court was intended to extort money from the ANC. Read Sisulu s statement below.My statement; I&#39;ll be doing a video interview with a journalist later today and will share that here too. Thank you pic.twitter.com/VRPZNPm3Tn&mdash; Shaka Sisulu (@ShakaSisulu) January 25, 2017