If Laduma and Gaia had been at the Grace Bible Church last Sunday they would have joined choreographer and Idols judge Somizi Mhlongo and stormed out of the building. They too would have been furious at comments by Bishop Dag Heward-Mills that homosexuality was not common in nature. Laduma and Gaia certainly wouldn t agree and they would know best.The pair of same-sex penguins at the Two Oceans Aquarium are as natural as nature can be and have been in a loving relationship for the past five years. The couple have successfully raised a number of chicks together. There is nothing like that in nature thundered Heward-Mills during a sermon last Sunday.But actually it s not just penguins that are well known for forming long-lasting monogamous same-sex relationships There are plenty of other examples in the animal kingdom of homosexuality bisexuality and in fact every kind of sexuality you find in humans. Homosexual behaviour has been observed in 1500 different species from killer whales to crabs to lions.Here are a couple that the bishop might find interesting:Giraffes: They love to neck of course and engage in plenty of male-on-male loving including rubbing flirting and lots of neck play. Reports state that there is more homosexual than heterosexual behaviour among the males up to 74%. Among the ladies? Not so much.Bonobos: Also known as pygmy chimpanzees these animals are completely bisexual but it s the females who have the most fun. About 60% of sex and there is plenty of it in bonobo society occurs between the females and it s full on face to face intimacy.Fruit flies: Yup even insects get it together with members of the same sex. In the case of fruit flies it s the males who during the first half an hour of their life span copulate wildly with anything flying past until they learn to recognise the smell of females and thereafter change teams.Dolphins: Like penguins bottlenose dolphins form monogamous relationships and scientists have observed up to 60% of the pairings are homosexual. They may have the occasional dalliance with females for breeding purposes but they will spend their time with their special friend .