With a range of new services on offer, the Mthatha regional hospital is finally operating to its full potential. Formerly known as Mthatha general hospital but operating as a district hospital, the facility has now been recast as a regional hospital.Despite the change being recorded in the Government Gazette in 2012, the hospital has only recently met its obligations.CEO Thozama Madubela said the level of operation of a regional hospital was different from a district hospital. Now the feeder hospitals can refer their patients to us in Mthatha. Mthatha does not have a district hospital and the people in this, and other surrounding areas, will greatly benefit, she said.The new services include family medicine, obstetrics and gynaecology, pediatrics, surgery, internal medicine and anaesthesia.There will be 13 new specialists and 39 medical officers. The hospital has established a functional neonatal unit and appointed a paediatrician, said Madubela. There is now a gynaecology and obstetrics unit in an effort aimed at minimising the medico-legal claims that are often lodged against the department. The regional hospital will now receive patients referred from district hospitals as far as Mhlontlo, Engcobo and other areas of the OR Tambo region.The Mthatha hospital was built in the 1940s and served as the biggest hospital in the former Transkei area until the Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital was built in 2003.It boasts recently revamped emergency and casualty departments, a 24 hour x-ray department and a 279 bed capacity.Provincial health MEC Dr Phumza Dyantyi said she was happy about the hospital being re-characterised. We are in the process of making our hospitals ready for NHI. I am very excited to have introduced services to Mthatha regional hospital that will benefit the people of Mthatha which is an important area and economic hub of our province, said Dyantyi. It is therefore vitally important to ensure that health service in the area is easily accessible, given the number of people living there. Last year Dyantyi officially opened the R14-million neonatal unit at the Mthatha regional hospital and hailed the 23-bed unit as a huge boost in her department s endeavours to deliver quality health services. We will reduce the number of litigation cases because most come from neonatal care. Mthatha is one of four hospitals with the highest number of cases. But this new ward will bring change and I am happy about that, she said at the time. siyab@dispatch.co.za