The first big day at big school turned into heartbreak for scores of pupils enrolled at Parkside Primary, who were sent home yesterday. The school was trashed by thieves during the holidays, who had burgled the school on at least four occasions.On a visit to the school yesterday, a Daily Dispatch team noticed that electricity cables had been ripped from walls leaving wires exposed, water pipes stolen and toilets broken.The thieves also stole a computer and roof sheeting above the corridors, while taps were ripped from their mountings.School Governing Body (SGB) chairman, Thanduxolo Faku, said the break-ins occurred during the holidays between December 19 and January 7. During the holiday the school s alarm, which only covers the administration block, went off four times and upon arrival [each time] we found the school broken into and vandalised, said Faku.The incidents have left the school without water and electricity.When the Dispatch arrived at the school just after 8am, principal Brian Fritz was addressing the 1200 pupils and parents gathered on the school grounds.News that the school would not be opening did not go down well with parents, who started shouting for people with information about the burglaries to come forward.Parent, Lucia Fritz, who could not hold back her anger, said their children had been robbed of the excitement of being back at school. I have three children at the school. We got up early and they were all excited to go back to school. Today would have been my youngest daughter s first day at big school. When I told her the sad news she cried because she had been looking forward to going to school, Fritz said.SGB member Hilda Prince said it was clear the thieves did not value education. We are pleading with anyone with information to please come forward so that we can put an end to this, said Prince.Fritz said in all of his 38 years at the 50-year-old school, this was the first time it could not re-open for the first day of school after the December holidays. I am very despondent, but this will not deter our staff and pupils. Once the school is fixed we will carry on providing education to the children of this community, Fritz said.The spokesman for the provincial department of education, Malibongwe Mtima, said a task team from the department s district office was sent to the school to assess the damage. The school s maintenance budget will be made available for repairs to be done, said Mtima.Meanwhile Faku said for safety reasons no pupil and teachers would be allowed on school premises until the school was repaired.Parents were asked to return to the school on Monday for an update. arethal@dispatch.co.za