Angry pupils and parents from Mputhi Primary School in Mthatha brought mid-morning traffic to a standstill on Friday when they blockaded the R61 during a protest. Although parents and pupils refused to speak to the Saturday Dispatch, the chairman of the school s governing body, Sipho Joyi, said they wanted the immediate appointment of a principal as the school had been operating without one for more than a year. This protest is our final resort. We did not really want to do this but it appears that the department of education is not taking this matter seriously because we have been writing to them, calling them and we even had a meeting with the MEC last year, said Joyi, whose child is in Grade 6 at the school.He said their main concern was that important documents which needed the signature of a principal did not get processed, and this prevented the smooth running of the school. There are important documents that need the signature of a principal, like transfer letters and reports. All the reports from last year s final exams have no signature, he said.Joyi said a school without a proper management structure meant even the teachers did as they pleased. Some teachers come in late or not at all. Sometimes they dismiss the children as early as 10am when will our children learn, what will they learn? It s a frustrating situation and we are here today to try and grab the department s attention because maybe this way they will notice and take our grievances seriously, said Joyi.He said that at some point the SGB took it upon themselves to elect one of the teachers as acting principal, but because the rest of the staff knew he was not appointed by the department they disregarded and disrespected his rule and he ended up backtracking as well .When the Dispatch arrived, King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality s acting mayor Tshepo Machaea was addressing the protesters, appealing for them to clear the road as he was there to try and help them reach a solution.He then invited the parents and pupils to a meeting this coming Sunday. I personally guarantee you that Sunday s meeting will be held in the presence of the relevant leaders, including the department, said Machaea.Motorists were stuck in the R61 for at least two hours yesterday.Education department spokesman Mali Mtima could not be reached for comment at the time of writing yesterday. ziphon@dispatch.co.za