The recent storms which left a trail of destruction through King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality on Monday left two people dead and about 1500 households damaged. Of these, 361 households were destroyed, leaving the families homeless.This was revealed by the OR Tambo district municipality yesterday as it worked towards finishing an assessment of the damage.The municipality on Thursday sent a preliminary report to the provincial disaster management centre within the cooperative governance and traditional affairs department in Bhisho. We now have to compile a comprehensive report to both the provincial and national disaster management centres, said OR Tambo spokesman, Ayongezwa Lungisa.He said in terms of the Disaster Management Act, they had 14 days to submit the comprehensive report. To this day, the field workers are on the field doing thorough verification of the damage that has been caused by this (disaster) that has befallen the district. He said there were officials from the departments of education, human settlements, social development and the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa). According to reports received so far from the field workers, a total of two people have lost their lives, one child injured, one person critically injured and 28 with minor injuries. The households that have been displaced owing to this major incident are now sitting at 361 while the houses that have been partially damaged are now sitting at about 1140, said Lungisa. It is important to highlight that due to the density of work that is done, assessment is still not complete and as such work is still continuing, said Lungisa.Yesterday residents of Qweqwe, whose houses were damaged by the storm, blocked the N2 between Mthatha and East London and stoned cars claiming the municipality was not giving them assistance.Police had to be called to put an end to the violence. To those who have sustained injuries, lost homes, churches, schools and other infrastructure, OR Tambo District Municipality expresses its deepest sympathy, Lungisa said.He said the storm had also disrupted electricity lines leading to disruption of electricity supply. Eskom promises to bring back power in the main line in four days from Wednesday. In all the affected areas, Eskom promises to bring back power (today). He said areas such as Payne would have electricity restored in two weeks time.The district authority thanked the volunteers and members of the public who continue to work selflessly to assist those inhabitants that have been affected . The role the non-governmental organisations and other relief organisations in partnering with government and coming to provide humanitarian aid to our communities cannot be underestimated, said Lungisa.As part of the relief to homeless families, district mayor Nomakhosazana Meth and KSD executive mayor Dumani Zozo handed over tents, food parcels, mattresses and blankets to 76 families in Qweqwe and Payne villages yesterday. We have 40 military tents provided by South African National Defence Force in which we can accommodate some families, Meth said. I have also spoken to Defence Minister Nosive Mapisa-Nqakula for more tents. We also hope to get disaster funds from the government so that the families could be assisted to rebuild their houses, she added.Non-profit organisation Women With Vision donated groceries and mattresses. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za&nbsp;