The Border-Kei Chamber of Business (Bkcob) has embarked on a massive cleanup drive in Buffalo City Metro in the hope of attracting investors and tourists. BKCOB, in association with businesses including Mercedes-Benz South Africa (MBSA), Caltex and Coca-Cola, launched the Call-2-Action campaign on November 14, with the first group of seven workers cleaning up the first of four pilot areas, Settlers Way.The team has unblocked drains, removed alien vegetation, cut grass and picked up litter.Bkcob executive director Les Holbrook told the Dispatch the aim was not to take over the job of the municipality on the contrary, they hoped to work hand-in-hand with the metro. Our aim is to collaborate with the metro to establish a common vision between the city and business, and also to ensure the sustainability of the project, he said.The workers are still busy at Settlers Way and will move on later to other areas.However, Holbrook said financial limitations were hindering their efforts and he was concerned about the future of the initiative. We urge businesses to invest in this initiative because lack of financial resources is still a challenge. We want interested parties to adopt this pilot project. Coca-Cola spokeswoman Nolundi Mzimba said her company was committed to environmental sustainability within and outside the business. We have invested R50000 towards the Call-2-Action initiative. As a company, we believe that our commitment to our environment through focused effort and investment provides a balanced approach to managing the sustainability of our business, our communities and our environments over the long term, she said.MBSA spokesman Asanda Fongqo said they fully supported the Call-2- Action campaign as it aimed to strengthen the city s businesses commitment to greening initiatives. This, we believe, has a potential to improve the city s image and its ability to attract more investment, he said.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said the municipality appreciated the partnership with the business community. We are looking at putting money in this initiative with the hope that it will attract tourists and open business and job opportunities for our unemployed youth. In the meantime, however, we are donating plastic bags and the municipal truck is collecting the rubbish, he said.Businesses wanting to join the initiative can phone the Bkcob on (043) 743-8438. sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za