A former spy who claims to have exposed the source of a smear campaign that accused various members of the Bhisho legislature of embezzlement, corruption, bribery and fraud in 2001 has been left out in the cold. Mxolosi Dyani, 50, an intelligence operative who said he had cracked the case that absolved politicians including former premier Makhenkesi Stofile and the late national minister of safety and security Steve Tshwete of any wrongdoing, is today down and out.The information was drafted by Bhisho legislature researcher Luzuko Kerr Hoho under the pseudonym Father Punch .Hoho was later found guilty on 22 counts of criminal defamation and was sentenced to three years in prison suspended for five years.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday, Dyani said he fell ill in 2005 and was medically boarded by the National Intelligence Agency (now known as the State Security Agency) in November of that year.At the time he was a unit head in Aliwal North and handled operatives working in Burgersdorp, Jamestown, Sterkspruit, Lady Grey, Barkly East, and Ventersdorp. They told me it was only temporary and I could come back when I was better. Although he recovered from his medical condition and reported back for duty in 2007 he was told he no longer had a job. They stopped paying me altogether when I fell sick [in November 2005] and left. I tried getting my job back until 2011, when I decided to lodge a complaint with the public protector, he said. National intelligence work is not part of the Labour Relations Act and I had nowhere to complain but to the same people tormenting me, Dyani said.He has high hopes the public protector will assist in getting his severance package. My complaint might seem petty for a director-general who is sitting up there but for me this is a serious matter because it affects me and my family. I know a lot of operatives that are in the same position as me. Operatives that have been discarded after serving this country, he said.Dyani has also asked the public protector to investigate maladministration within the Eastern Cape State Security Agency (SSA) that took place between 2004 and 2005 when the agency was being restructured .He said he was not paid a salary in 2004, which he was told was due to the restructuring.Public protector spokesman Oupa Segalwe confirmed they were looking into the matter but said part of the delay in finalising Dyani s case was that some of the information relating to his case was not freely available. Mr Dyani s complaint is a labour matter. He was not satisfied with the benefits received when he terminated his service. The employer did not want to allow him to exit on better conditions, Segalwe said. He said the public protector had come up with a proposal that might be more favourable to Dyani: Mr Dyani has been advised on steps we are taking to prioritise the finalisation of a section 7(9) notice. This is a notice that the public protector issues to parties in this case the State Security Agency against whom she is considering making adverse findings for the purpose of soliciting comments on provisional findings.SSA spokesman Brian Dube had not responded to questions at the time of writing. zwangam@dispatch.co.za