Matric results of 13 Eastern Cape pupils allegedly caught cheating have been withheld. Eastern Cape Education MEC Mandla Makupula revealed this while tabling a detailed report on the 2016 matric class performance at the Stirling Teachers Centre yesterday.Giving further details to the media, education deputy director-general Ray Tywakadi said they reported 13 cases to the national Department of Basic Education, which were subsequently referred to an irregularities committee. In these cases, even a crib note is alleged to be an act of copying as it is not allowed in the exam room. They are not serious cases such as group copying, Tywakadi said. It s strange behaviour that was picked up during exams and they were reported. They were 13 in total. This follows incidents in 2014, in what turned out to be probably the biggest exam- cheating scandal to hit South Africa.The allegations of group copying during matric exams in KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape forced Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to nullify results at 11 matric examination centres in KwaZulu-Natal and seven in the Eastern Cape.The department hired 19 irregularity investigators who received training in managing and handling irregularities at marking centres.The report states that the 13 affected pupils were caught with crib notes and suspected copying . The results of the above-mentioned candidates are blocked in the system or withheld pending the completion of investigation which will involve charging and conducting disciplinary hearings, the report read.Tywakadi said in these cases, pupils would not receive their results because the cases were still under investigation. There is a formal investigation that has to be undertaken by the Department of Basic Education jointly with us as the province where we establish the extent of whether this did occur and impacted on their performance, he said.Meanwhile, four pupils would have to write supplementary exams after they fell ill and had to abandon the exam room in the middle of exams.This was after more than 1000 pupils from schools in the King William s Town area fell sick and started vomiting and complaining of stomach cramps after eating umphokoqo/umvubo (pap with sour milk) at school.Tywakadi said: We have made special arrangements for automatic supplementary exams for those learners who were affected. The report that we received was that the four could not finish the exam as they had stomach cramps and had to be rushed to hospital. zineg@dispatch.co.za