It was smiles, tears and excitement for matriculants who stayed awake on Wednesday night waiting for newspapers containing their final exam results. Beaconhurst star pupil, Marco van Greunen camped outside the Caltex garage on Western Avenue late on Wednesday evening, eagerly awaiting the newspaper. I was happy to have received the paper just after 11pm. It was such a relief. I thought I would be able to sleep peacefully, but instead I couldn t sleep because of the excitement of knowing I had obtained seven distinctions. I am so happy that all my hard work has paid off, he said.Beaconhurst High School, which had 54 matrics, had a 100% pass rate for the 14th consecutive year, with 66.6% bachelor passes, 31.48% diploma passes and 1.85% higher certificate passes.Ebenezer Majombozi High School pupil Yamkela Ntantiso,18, passed with two distinctions. It was a long wait at the Engen garage but when the delivery vehicles came with the paper, I became so nervous to even look at it. But I was over the moon when I eventually did. The aspiring pharmacist said she was surprised by her results. I worked hard but I am still surprised by what I have achieved. I guess I underestimated myself, she said.Ebenezer s 176 matriculants boosted the school s pass rate by a whopping 10%, from 59% to 69%, with 38 bachelor passes, 43 diploma passes and 41 higher certificate passes.Clarendon High School for Girls matric pupil Dhannya Mathew, 18, said she was still in disbelief about her eight distinctions. I never expected this. I am still so excited and amazed at what I have accomplished and looking forward to going to university. Mathew will be pursuing a degree in engineering science in digital arts.The girls school bagged another 100% pass rate, with their 143 matrics for the 24th consecutive year. The school obtained a 98.6% bachelor pass rate.Another Clarendon pupil, Moya Eybers, who is among the top achievers of the province, scooped nine distinctions.Mzomhle High School s Sandile Tsewu, 18, said he did not look at the paper for his results, but went to his school for the full statement. It was time management, dedication and a lot of hard work that has seen me smiling today. As an only child to a single, unemployed mother, I knew that I had to pull my weight, get educated and support my family. That has been the driving force of my commitment and I have always been inspired by teachers and past achieving pupils to never let circumstances confine you. Tsewu obtained five distinctions and wants to pursue a degree in biochemistry at the University of Cape Town, where he has been accepted although he still has no funding.The exam results for schools in East London, Mthatha and surrounding areas were published in a 19-page supplement in yesterday s Daily Dispatch.Daily Dispatch assistant circulation manager Riaan Odendaal said the paper had printed more copies than usual to accommodate matriculants. Because of the demand of the newspaper during this period, we have early deadlines which allow for us to make more issues. This year we printed a little over 80000 copies of the newspaper, not much of a difference during the same period last year Odendaal said three additional vehicles had been hired to speed up delivery to Mthatha, Queenstown and Aliwal North. mbalit@dispatch.co.za