Outspoken Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini yesterday officially launched the Siyakha Early Childhood Development Centre in Ducats, East London. The construction and resourcing of the centre falls under the nation-wide Mikhondzo project, an initiative of the department to address social services delivery backlogs in destitute communities. Even though the Eastern Cape may arguably have a lot of areas which are considered impoverished, there are areas which were identified by the national department. Ducats falls under those areas, said Dlamini.In response to a question on the absence at the launch of Buffalo City Metro (BCM) senior leaders, the minister said: The people that I wanted are here. BCM mayor Xola Pakati, who was meant to welcome the minister and her delegation and guests at the launch, said he only received the invitation late on Monday night. I have sent councillor Clara Moerolong to represent the office of the mayor. The minister said the project was part of the department s plan to improve the living conditions of South Africa s most impoverished citizens and that the centre would help link the community to social services offered by the department. In this area there are 33 children who had to be taken to a safe home. That alone speaks volumes in terms of the amount of help needed here, said Dlamini.Dlamini, the ANC Women s League president, was accompanied by her provincial MEC Nancy Sihlwayi and ward 15 councillor Makhaya Bophi.She was later joined by BCM mayoral committee members Xolani Witbooi and Amanda Myute.Ducats informal settlement is home to thousands of children, many of whom are raised in single parent households.The National Development Agency, which falls under the provincial social development department, assisted with the Siyakha project.The agency s spokesman, Thamo Mzombe, said the agency paid more than R80000 for the structure. Through donations from many stakeholders, we managed to secure an additional R5000 which assisted with the fittings and the books in the centre. We hope to utilise the centre for counselling sessions desperately needed in the area, said Mzombe.The agency has trained eight teachers for the centre.School Governing Body representative Nomsa Loyd said the work of the centre would build confidence in the community about the need for early childhood development. simthandilef@dispatch.co.za