PAC prisoner Kenny Motsamai s wife Mantombi hadn t eaten on Wednesday as she is fasting and praying for husband s release after almost three decades years in prison. She had expected him to be released from Boksburg Correctional Services Centre as his six months of day-parole was completed on Tuesday.But the parole board is apparently only discussing his case and possible release on Wednesday. His lawyer Luleka Fulathela is currently with the board said cousin Peter Malekane.Kenny Motsamai has been in prison since 1989 after being found guilty of murdering a white traffic officer in Rustenburg during an Azanian People s Liberation Army-sanctioned bank robbery in 1989 and handed two life sentences. At the time he was 26 and had just returned from Ethiopia after military training. Apla was the military wing of the PAC.Mantombi s face lit up as she spoke about her husband and said she had remained his wife while he was behind bars for 27 years because she loves him.During his day-parole during which his whereabouts have been monitored by an offender tracking device Kenny spent his days with her and plays with his six-year -old grandson because he wasn t a father to his daughter Busi she said.Mantombi was in Tanzania at an Apla camp and pregnant with Busi when she learned of her husband s arrest in 1989.Daughter Busisiwe Magagula said: He was fighting for a fair world. They killed a police officer at the time but my father claimed he was involved in a robbery. Magagula told Power FM earlier this month that the EFF has offered her father a job. About 100 members of that party were in attendance at the Boksburg facility on Wednesday. Picketing EFF members said they were at the prison to support Busi as she is a member of the party. They have released other political prisoners why not him? asked one EFF member demonstrating outside the Boksburg facility.The Red Berets chairperson advocate Dali Mpofu and supporters were to escort him from Boksburg to a house in Katlehong. But it was not to be.A handful of PAC members were also demonstrating outside the centreKenny Motsamai s son Karabo reacted angrily to the news that his father would walk not free at least for another day: I have grown up without a father even Jub Jub has not served 10 years. This was a reference to singer Molemo Jub Jub Maarohanye who along with Themba Tshabalala was released on parole last week after serving half of his eight-year jail sentence for crashing their cars into a group of school children in 2010. The accident left four boys dead and two others seriously injured.Karabo said he was a one-year-old when his dad was arrested. I know him (from) behind bars. TMG Digital