The Democratic Alliance is to write to the chairperson of Parliament s Portfolio Committee on Police Francois Beukman to request that Acting National Police Commissioner Khomotso Phahlane and the Independent Police Investigative Directorate appear before the committee for questioning. This follows the raid by IPID investigators on Phahlane s luxury home in Pretoria East last week.DA spokesman on police matters Zakhele Mbhele said on Sunday that in order for IPID to have obtained a warrant to search Phahlane s home the presiding magistrate had to have been presented with compelling prima facie evidence that there was a case to be answered. This is extremely concerning. Our country s top police officer must be beyond reproach with a squeaky clean record of upholding the law of the Republic of South Africa. With violent crime continuing to ravage communities across our country South Africans expect and deserve nothing less Mbhele said.According to reports the allegations relate to a stereo system worth R80 000 given to Phahlane by a chemical company Crimetech Laboratories. This was the very same company that supplied forensic equipment and chemicals for the SAPS during Phahlane s time as head of the forensic science laboratory Mbhele said. It has also come to light that the Director of Crimetech was involved in the interior decorating of Phahlane s home. This latest information follows an already completed forensic probe by CPN Forensic and Accounting Services initiated in 2012 regarding alleged corruption by Phahlane. The DA will also request that this report be tabled before the committee for scrutiny as a matter of urgency. We again urge Lt-Gen. Phahlane to subject himself to a lifestyle audit that will help to clarify this matter said Mbhele.He added that given the major damage caused to the South African Police Service s reputation by previous National Police Commissioners (NPC) such as Jackie Selebi and most recently Riah Phiyega this issue highlighted once again the glaring need for an overhaul of the NPC s appointment process. This should be in line with the National Development Plan s recommendation for a shortlisting and nomination process by a National Policing Board with multi-sectoral and multi-disciplinary expertise Mbhele said.