A Kenton-On-Sea gardener and building labourer has become an overnight internet sensation for his incredible ability to impersonate much-loved Umhlobo Wenene FM station presenters. Videos of Andile Kani aka WaRuna imitating prime-time radio personalities are going viral on social network sites, generating millions of views. He shares videos of himself on his Facebook page imitating almost the entire line-up of on-air personalities including Putco Mafani, Amaza Ntshanga, Pastor Nozewu and the late presenters Saba Mbixane and soccer commentator Zingisile Matiso.Kani s exceptional talent doesn t come as a surprise to many after all, he is the nephew of legendary theatre maestro and television actor John Kani.Following his new-found fame, Kani, 33, was called by the station to perform his creative mimicry live on air on Umhlobo Wene FM s breakfast show last week.The performance left many among the millions of listeners begging for more. Their calls for an encore flooded the telephone lines.If station presenters would pull the Generations 16 stayaway and decide to drop their mics, WaRuna would definitely save the day for station manager Phumzile Mnci.Umhlobo Wene FM has been part of the culture of Xhosa speakers for more than five decades. It is the second-most popular radio station in the country with a five million listenership. Zulu radio station Khozi FM has the most.Kani has many Facebook users intrigued with how effortlessly he impersonates the radio personalities.He does it sitting outside his home in an imaginary studio and using his clenched fist as a microphone.His videos show that he understands the seven Ps of on-air presenting, starting with perfect posture before nailing the pitching, projection, pronunciation, pauses, pacing and, most important, personality.From religious show presenter Reverend Mzukisi Faleni to the late multi-award-winning Maskandi music presenter Saba, Kani has them down perfectly.He said he discovered his talent at school after he started imitating the late soccer commentator Zingisile Matiso.He was 12 years old. I used to do live soccer matches and then people started asking me to imitate other presenters so from there I just grew and grew. He is a huge Orlando Pirates fan.Matiso was his role model and one of the greatest commentators of all times. I m one of those people who mute the TV volume and switch on the radio to listen to Matiso s commentary. I also used to listen to the likes of Doc Nomsobo. I love Umhlobo Wenene FM. Kani leaves many social media users in stitches when he puts soccer analyst Barracks Ncedana s occasionally confusing live match analysis under the spotlight through his work.Ncedana has come under fire from the station s listeners for his slow-paced and questionable soccer analysis.Ever since Kani became an instant hit on social media, event organisers have been booking him to perform at their events. Sometimes I go to school concerts and weddings to entertain the crowd. I now take my work very seriously because this means I must work hard to be able to imitate a wide variety of personalities so that I don t bore the audience with the same material. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za