School camp hosted by 2004 Miss South Africa finalist Yolanda Pieterson at the weekend was a life-changing experience for about 200 youths. The camp, which took place at the mouth of the Igoda River near East London, was one of many held by the businesswoman s Lulutho Grooming School since she started the organisation in 2009.The initiative has been sustained by Pieterson and her husband s company, Enroute Traders, which gained support from the National Lotteries Commission this year.The school hosts two camps annually for boys and girls from the age of 11, to upskill and motivate them through music, dance and poetry. Some of the youths who attended the weekend camp live in Mthatha, King William s Town and Mdantsane.A Grade 11 pupil at the high school Advanced for Life, Mihle Fini, 17, said she had grown spiritually in the four days she was at the camp. It s the first time I have come to this camp, and the first thing I developed is a stronger relationship with God. I have made many friends from different backgrounds, and heard of their upbringing and challenges, which has opened my eyes to many things. I have also learnt a lot about myself, what my weaknesses are and how I can strengthen them, too. Maphelo Msiwa, 21, a first-year student at Durban University of Technology said he had heard about the camp from a friend. It sounded so exciting and I just wanted to be part of it, and I m glad I came. There is so much that I needed to hear to keep me inspired and ready for the new year, and now I feel more convinced that I am going to have a great year. Group leader Sinethemba Hintsa, 26, who has taken part in the camps since Lulutho Grooming School was started in 2009, said the weekend camp had instilled many values and principles in the attendees. I have grown with the school over the years now I am among the team leaders here, and we are like family now. The programme has taught me so much, and I am even employed because of Sis Yolanda s efforts to recruit unemployed graduates, and even educate those who have no funding to pursue tertiary education. Pieterson, an architectural technologist. said she had started the school to share what she had learnt from the time she was a Miss SA finalist. People hear the word grooming and they think [the camp is] just a beauty pageant where children learn about make-up not considering grooming in the true essence of the word. I have a wonderful team of pastors, fitness trainers and professionals in a variety of careers who come to engage with the youth to raise awareness about career opportunities, healthy living and give them spiritual growth. Camp participants were encouraged to reach their full potential through activities like drama, music and dance. We give them the platform to perform at festivals and carnivals, to promote their abilities. It s just great to watch someone you have been grooming going through the same steps you have gone through. We really pride ourselves in [camp attendee] Sikhonathi Tonisi, who was a Miss SA teen finalist in 2011, and who is currently a Miss Sundowns finalist, she said. mbalit@dispatch.co.za