A 101-year-old man living alone in a dilapidated mud rondavel in a village outside Mdantsane fears the structure will one day collapse and kill him. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch this week ahead of his 101-birthday today, Diliza Dyani of Nxarhuni village, also known as Newlands, said three ward councillors before the current one had told him he did not qualify for an RDP house. They told me that these RDP houses are only built for those members of the community that have been affected by disaster, Dyani said pointing at RDP houses in the village.The local government built him and his neighbours toilets last year but he said he needed a house more than the toilet.The rondavel that he sleeps in was built from mud 35 years ago and has undergone numerous repairs over the years. The roof has been wired to large stones to prevent it from blowing away. The roof leaks so when it rains or there is a storm I fear that this old rondavel will collapse on top of me, Dyani said.He said he feared being killed by his own house more than by old age. I am the oldest member of this community and I have been voting since 1994. Four councillors and still no one is willing to help me. His wish is to live in a proper house. Although I don t know when God will collect me, I will rest peacefully knowing well that my government built me a house, Dyani said.The newly-elected ward councillor in the area, Elliot Ncothele, said Dyani would have to wait as there was no housing project in the pipeline.Ironically Ncothele, who sits on the Buffalo City Metro council, himself lives in a mud house with his family. My house is also wanting to collapse on top of us, Ncothele said.Asked what could be done to assist Dyani, the councillor said: I am still new in this work, I can t promise anybody anything. But one will have to go and knock at the municipality and speak with the bosses regarding this matter, he said.Dyani credited his long life to God and abstinence, saying he d had his first child at the age of 43. He does gardening to keep fit. zwangam@dispatch.co.za