Police have appealed to the public for help in cracking an unsolved theft of expensive whisky by a four-member gang. The thieves walked out of an East London bottle store with six bottles of single malt Glenfiddich whisky worth more than R4000.The incident took place at the Riverbend Gonubie Tops liquor store last month.Eastern Cape police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni said police were asking the public to look out for the suspects, or if a similar incident happened to contact the police.Tonjeni said the suspects were two African men, a white woman and an African woman.The incident took place on December 17. The cashier noticed that they [the suspects] looked suspicious and noticed that they left the store, getting into a white Toyota Tazz with an unknown registration number, said Tonjeni. Upon checking the CCTV footage, she discovered that they had stolen six bottles of (Glenfiddich) to the value of R4040. Tops manager Akhona Tafane said the suspects stole six 750ml Glenfiddich bottles of whisky consisting of two 12-year-old bottles, two 14-year-old bottles and two 15-year-old bottles.Tafane said the bottles had been on an impulse display stand especially set up by a Glenfiddich promotion team. The single malt bottles are usually locked in a glass display case.A 14-year-old bottle of Glenfiddich rich oak costs R649.99, a 12-year-old signature malt costs R489.99 and the 15-year-old unique solera reserve costs R879.99 a bottle.Tops and Kwik Spar managing director Nigel Connellan said there were five staffers on duty at the time and a private security guard.Connellan said theft was so rife that they had increased the number of CCTV cameras in their stores across the Eastern Cape. Sadly we have had numerous theft incidents in all our stores, and have the latest CCTV technology in all 25 of our businesses in the Eastern Cape, all with offsite monitoring. One can see from the clarity of these photos that the suspects are very easily identifiable. Criminals need to understand that our stores have on average 64 CCTV cameras installed, from inside the store to out in the car park, and if a crime is committed, we will make use of all facilities we have in order to hold them accountable. Tonjeni said anyone with information on the theft could contact Detective Sergeant Vuyo Vazi at the Gonubie Detective Service on 043-740-2305 or on his cell 071-907-8322. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za