Renowned educator and former Ciskei minister of manpower Khumbulile Nyikana has died. HK , as he was affectionately known, died aged 85 at St Dominic s Hospital on December 31 following a long battle with heart complications.The exceptional administrator was also a social anthropologist and a well-respected farmer who completed his undergraduate degree at Rhodes University in 1955.It was in the same year that the young Nyikana met his sweetheart, Nonkundla Maputi of Phewuleni, Middledrift.The two tied the knot in 1957 and were blessed with seven children three daughters and four sons, two of whom died in infancy.One of his sons, Mxolisi, described his father as exceptional . He instilled a desire for education not just in his family but in the community at large. He had unconditional love and a commitment to family dignity, added Mxolisi.A few years after completing a post-graduate diploma in education at Fort Hare University in Alice, Nyikana defied all the odds and went on to register for a master s degree at Free State University, graduating cum laude despite it being an Afrikaans-medium institution at the time. Dr Thozamile Mle, a research fellow at Fort Hare, said it was this achievement which inspired most of those who met this great man . Thanks to his wisdom and love for education, I also later received my PhD. HK, along with Professor Theko Gitywa, were the first two black graduates from Mdizeni, a small village in Middledrift.Due to their remarkable achievements both their graduation ceremonies were celebrated by the entire AmaGqunkwebe community.During his career as an educator, he taught at several schools in Ciskei and the then Cape Provincial Administration and later served as a principal in many others in Middledrift, Graaff-Reinet, Sterkspruit, Burgersdorp and King William s Town.In recognition of his leadership qualities and solid management skills, he was promoted in 1975 to schools inspector.In 1981, having risen through the ranks, HK was appointed director-general in the Ciskei department of foreign affairs, where he worked with his long-time friend and later brother-in-law Ntandazo Pityi.Mle described Nyikana as a selfless achiever, who did not want achievement for just his family but for the entire community . He was ethically grounded and very disciplined, and was the embodiment of good governance. He said Nyikana encouraged everyone at the department to study further, and led by example. He was not just a mentor, but was a father figure, said Mle.In 1991 Nyikana decided to throw in the towel as an administrator and pursue a new career in farming.He was soon an influential member of the Kusile Vukani Farmers Cooperative.But that same year he was invited to rejoin the Ciskei government as minister of the manpower department, a position he held until 1992.After that, returning to his first love, education, he lectured at Butterworth College of Education from 1992 to 1994.After an impeccable career, HK retired in 1996 after serving two years as principal of the Masonwabe finishing school in Duncan Village. He had integrity and adhered to high standards and moral values at all times, said Mxolisi.He is survived by his wife Nonkundla, as well as his children Misela, Nqandeka, Zameka, Sakhumzi and Mxolisi. He will be laid to rest at his home at Mayipase location on Saturday. zineg@dispatch.co.za