By SIKHO NTSHOBANE and SIYA BOYAA Macleantown man has been arrested for allegedly raping his teenage daughter. Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi yesterday confirmed the arrest, saying the man would make his first appearance at the East London Magistrate s Court. The suspect threatened to kill the victim if she told her mother. This came to the fore after the victim visited her aunt during December. In January when the victim was supposed to return home she was reluctant. After the aunt had interrogated her she ultimately told the story to the aunt, Mbi said.Mbi said after the father, 50, heard that a case has been opened against him he threatened to kill himself and the family.lA man, 35, was arrested for allegedly for raping a 21-year-old woman.It is alleged that the victim and the suspect were in a tavern on Thursday night at Mzantsi Location, Rwantsana Village, Centane. The accused allegedly offered to accompany her home when she left.Police spokesman Captain Jackson Manatha said once they arrived at her home, the man overpowered her and raped her. The victim noticed that the suspect was fast asleep and snoring at 2am. She escaped through the door and alerted the local community who came and tied him up. Police were informed and rushed to the scene where they found him. The man will appear in the Centane Magistrate s Court today.Police spokesman Captain Jackson Manatha said the first woman, who is 56 years old, was arrested on Friday at Bonde village in Willowvale in possession an of unlicensed shotgun. The suspect was noticed by police carrying a parcel that was covered with plastic. Police chased her and found that the parcel was in a fact a shotgun, said Manatha.The woman will appear in the Willowvale Magistrate s Court.A woman of 33 was arrested on Friday in Butterworth s Skiet Informal Settlement, allegedly with dagga valued at R10000.Manatha said the bust came after police received a tip-off about her activities.She is due to appear in the Butterworth Magistrate s Court today on charges of dealing in dagga.Police spokesman Lieutenant Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the incident took place on Saturday night. The truck was ferrying furniture when it was hijacked. Some of its contents were found inside a car driven by the suspect, Fatyela said.He said the suspect would appear in the Mthatha Magistrate s Court on possession of suspected stolen goods charges. siyab@dispatch.co.za/ sikhon@dispatch.co.za