Border all-rounder Gionne Koopman is looking to cement his place in the Warriors setup with him currently playing his fourth-ever first-class franchise match. Koopman, 25, made his Warriors debut in the 2014/2015 season, in January 2015, in what was a hard fought 16-run win over the Cape Cobras.He then did not make an appearance for the franchise over the entire 2015/2016 season but has forced his way back into the reckoning this season.Koopman has played in the Warriors last three matches in a row, starting with their 107-run win over the Knights in November, followed by last weekend s rain-affected draw with the Dolphins and now this week s current clash with the Cobras. I am really happy to be back playing with the Warriors, said Koopman. Its a nice set-up. The guys have been really welcoming and I just want to start contributing to the team. Koopman has been in imperious form for Border this season and that has clearly made an impression on the Warriors management.In four first-class games so far this season for the semi-pro team, Koopman has scored 361 runs at an average 60.16, with three 50s and one century which proved to be the highest score of his career 130 against Free State. I have had a good season so far for Border, my batting has been really good and I have been enjoying it, admitted Koopman. But playing for the Warriors is a step up from the semi-pros, so the goal now is to perform well at this level and hopefully cement my place. Koopman has been primarily used as an opening batsman for the Warriors, however for Border, he is a full-blown all-rounder and is a decent leg-break bowler.Despite not getting his chance with the ball yet, he is not worried and only focused on the task at hand. For now I will just focus on my batting. Hopefully I will get a shot with the ball at a later stage and I can then focus on that, explained Koopman.In the current match against the Cobras, Koopman was busy in the field on the first day on Thursday taking two catches. However he was the first Warriors wicket to fall at the end of the day for five.If he gets another chance to bat in the match he will hope for a much better return. We had a decent first day. We want to win this game, so the plan was to put them in and then make sure we were batting by the end of the day and we managed to do that which was good, said Koopman.Following this weekend s match Koopman is not looking too far ahead, preferring to keep his mind on the task at hand and then take it as it comes. I am trying to take it one game at a time so my focus for now is on this game but if I can make an impact and get a good run with the Warriors it will be great for me and my career, said Koopman.Day three and four of the Warriors Sunfoil Series match against the Cobras will continue today and tomorrow.