After weeks of suspense and anxiety, matriculants across the country will finally know their fate when the results for government schools are published tomorrow. The long wait comes with excitement for those who will pursue their career choices at respective institutions across the country, marking a new chapter, while it will also be an unfortunate disappointment for others.Education spokesman Loyiso Pulumani said it was all systems go as the department prepared to announce the Class of 2016 Grade 12 results. The department has already informed all top performers and invited them to the awards ceremony to be held in the afternoon of Friday January 6, Pulumani said. They, together with their parents or guardians, will be transported to East London in preparation for the ceremony. All the results are in and have been fully certified by Umalusi. Beaconhurst High School matriculant Marco van Greunen said he had performed very well throughout the year last year and was confident. I am very relaxed, not feeling the pressure quite as yet, but I m sure it will kick in by late tomorrow evening. Otherwise I m not worried, because even if I do not perform as [well as] I have in mind, I know it will still be good enough. Amabele High School matriculant Buyiswa Mnikina from Butterworth said she had been having sleepless nights leading up to the release of the school results. I am so scared, I don t know what to expect because my June results weren t so good and although I worked hard to improve them during the September exams, I pushed harder for the finals, but I am still so nervous, she said. I guess I can only relax when I see them myself. Clarendon Girls High School matric pupil Kayla Lottering said she had mixed emotions as she awaited her results. I am excited and nervous at the same time. Looking forward to varsity and counting the days until I am officially done with high school, she said.Vulihlanga High School matriculant Ayabonga Mahoba said yesterday he was counting the days. Two more sleeps and reality will kick in but I am very confident I have done well and I am looking forward to life after matric. It s inevitable to feel a little anxious and nervous during this period, but regardless, as a person, you know how much you have committed to the task and now it s time to reap what we have been sowing all year, he said. mbalit@dispatch.co.zalThe results for education districts in the Daily Dispatch circulation area will be published tomorrow.l See also Opinion, page 7