The Eastern Cape department of health is poised to hire hundreds of new medical staff soon, including 133 medical interns. The new posts are part of an effort to reduce pressure on local clinics and hospitals.Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said more than 400 staff were to be hired by the department by the end of April.Kupelo said the posts to be filled included clinical associates, pharmacy interns, physiotherapists and radiographers. The new posts would also bolster dentist community services, dietician community services and clinical services. The department has to prioritise the under-serviced areas including rural and district hospitals. We are mindful that provincial and tertiary facilities require community service staff and we are making sure that they are provided based on need, he said.Kupelo said health services staff were overloaded and the new positions would bring relief. The public will definitely benefit because they will now receive fast service given the additional workforce, he said.According to Kupelo, the medical interns will go to Frere Hospital in East London, Livingston Hospital in Port Elizabeth, Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital in Mthatha and to Uitenhage hospitals.Expected to arrive are 81 community service doctors as well as 89 medical officers, who had completed their community service.There will also be new staff in speech and audiologist services, clinical psychologist services and environmental health services.The department has in the past found itself on the wrong foot with with staff shortages resulting in several complaints.Last year, the Daily Dispatch reported that Butterworth Hospital only had two doctors attending to patients. Patients said they were unattended for hours.The Eastern Cape is the province that has struggled the most to attract doctors for community service despite its severe shortage.This is because rural areas are still the last choice for doctors, who list where they want to work.National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union provincial secretary Miki Jaceni said: It is our wish and intention that people are hired. We want to see our communities receive improved services. We have no problem with the department hiring people from the old oganogram. We have a high vacancy rate so we need a structure that will meet the department s needs. I am not sure if 400 will be enough. We do, however, appreciate them employing people, Jaceni said.DA MPL Celeste Barker yesterday said: It is fantastic that medical graduates are being placed in the province. It will ease the burden on staff in our facilities. The community will also benefit. siyab@dispatch.co.za