More than 80 children at an impoverished farm school received new school shoes when the organisation Virtuous Jewels made a special delivery on Friday morning. Noncedo Primary School, in Ducats North, has been operating from a dilapidated house since 2000 and was adopted by the organisation, made up of influential women.Virtuous Jewels, lead by the former head of the provincial Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs, Nombulelo Hackula, arrived at the school just before 8am to hand over 82 pairs of new school shoes for Noncedo Primary s Grade R pupils.School principal Daphne Sidzatane said the women were a blessing to the community of Ducats. Shoes are the most important part of a child s school uniform, because when your feet are cold, you can t concentrate. We are so blessed that these Jewels have thought of us, and taken out of their pockets to see to it that our children have shoes. This is just another generous deed out of many they have done for our school. Sidzatane said last year Virtuous Jewels delivered school furniture for the pupils, who until that point had sat on the ground outside the farm house each day for their lessons.The school has 408 pupils and only eight teachers, who juggle their work to teach classes from grades R to 7. Classes have been taking place outside; you can imagine how many rooms a house has and to accommodate all grades inside is not possible. But we have to offer all of them [pupils] schooling because the kids in this area have no other school to go to. Virtuous Jewels identified the school as one needing support early last year.Century21 property s Kaye Groom, who is a member of Virtuous Jewels, said she was it was humbling to hand over the shoes. It s painful to see the conditions they endure, but it was inspiring watching how happy they were when they got new shoes. Being part of the Jewels represented a wonderful opportunity to give back to the community.Another member, Walter Sisulu University tourism Lecturer Zandi Mabona, said she was saddened by the plight of the children. To think in this day and age there are still pupils studying outdoors, it is shocking. But I am humbled by their resilience and willingness to be at school despite their circumstances, she said.Hackula said the organisation hoped to raise awareness about the plight of the school, to get other businesses to also lend a hand. If we could get a construction company that could commit to building a new structure for this school, our work here would have been most effective. mbalit@dispatch.co.za