A Gonubie couple attacked in the comfort of their home earlier this week are likely to have known their attackers. Police have obtained witness statements alleging the two men who stabbed and killed 75-year-old Marlene Cairns and injured her 77-yearold husband Neil Cairns had in the days leading up to the attack harassed the couple in their home for small change .The couple were attacked in their 12th Avenue home on Monday night.Marlene died there after being stabbed in her neck. Neil survived with severe stab wounds to his upper body.Residents of the normally quiet seaside suburb have expressed outrage over the murder, with Gonubie Neighbourhood Watch member Louw Myburgh describing it as a cowardly act .Condolences and messages of support for the family have come from all corners of the country through different social media platforms.As police efforts to search for the killers continued yesterday it emerged that moments before the deadly attack the Cairns visited the Pick n Pay in Gonubie s King s Mall Shopping Centre where they withdrew their pension grants.It is further believed they were targeted for this pension cash by the two men who followed them home.The attackers gained entry into the couple s house by jumping over the boundary wall.Once in the house the parties argued, leading to the stabbing. After the assailants had fled the scene with the money found in Marlene s purse, Neil ran to the streets in a state of confusion to seek help.Said a resident close to the developments: A neighbour saw him walking in the street covered in blood and approached him to find out what had happened. Mr Cairns told his neighbour that two men who had in the past harassed him and his wife for a spare change had stabbed him and his wife. The neighbour summoned the ambulance and police to the scene. A police source who was briefed about the situation informed the Dispatch: The murder was not a random act. We are busy following strong leads and an arrest is imminent. Our investigation are continuing, was all East London police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala could say yesterday.The couple s neighbour, Annette Pinnell, said two police vans were seen patrolling the area. They also went to the old municipal nursery with thick bush to search if vagrants were there. They did not find anyone but there was evidence that people are living in the bush, Pinnell said.