Tills worked overtime at malls and restaurants, beds were filled to capacity at many accommodation spots and festival-goers streamed to events in their thousands in what has been dubbed a bumper holiday season for Buffalo City and the Wild Coast. In Mthatha, BT Ngebs City general manager Lolo Sabisa said the festive season had been busier than ever before with 37% growth from a year ago and a 15% increase in foot traffic.The food sector showed the most growth and an influx of out-of-town visitors gave a major boost to the local economy, he said.Buffalo City Tourism s projects specialist for economic development and agencies, Noludwe Ncokazi, said the city s line-up of events and festivals had attracted visitors and locals alike. The Berlin November was the start of the season for us and was an excellent beginning, with 30000 people attending and people coming from other provinces. Ncokazi said several East London events in December had also drawn thousands of revellers. The Buyel ekhaya Pan African Music Festival at the Buffalo Park cricket stadium was a huge success and 15000 attended. She said although the city s occupancy levels would only be available next month, a preliminary assessment reflected that most accommodation establishments were 60% to 80% full over the season, swelling to a 100% occupancy rate between Christmas and New Year. You could hardly find accommodation in that week and this includes King William s Town and Mdantsane, she said.Wild Coast Reservations travel consultant Carole van der Berg reported a bumper season for coastal hotels from Haga Haga to Mbotyi.She said hotels were fully booked between the peak dates of December 17 and January 3. We struggled to get people in and there were a lot of unhappy people who could not get bookings, she said. There were a lot of Gauteng and Western Cape visitors. The Wild Coast hotels are popular because there is less hustle and bustle it s just you, the resort and the beach. It was a bumper season and everyone s smiling. For the cash-strapped holidaymaker, camping was a cheaper option.Buccaneers Lodge &amp; Backpackers co-owner Sal Price said many Johannesburg, Cape Town and foreign tourists opted to camp under the stars. It was an amazing season. We were beautifully full from December 16 and we are still busy. Vincent Park general manager Joseph Parsley was less upbeat, saying that although final numbers regarding foot traffic and spending would only be available later this week, there were indications that fewer people parted with their money this Christmas. It has been pretty decent, but it has not been phenomenal. We did not have to call in the traffic department to smooth traffic flow in and out of the centre on peak shopping days like we did in 2015. Mdantsane City general manager Dean Deary said trading was up by 2.6% year-on-year and that hosting BCM s summer carnival for two days had been a crowd-puller.An influx of holidaymakers from December 16 caused an upswing in foot traffic at Hemingways Mall, according to general manager Reinette van Tonder, who said the mall had experienced fantastic trading .Southern Cross Cruises owner John Barry said it had been a good season. I ran three boats this year and at times people had to sit and wait. I was busy with visitors mainly from the Free State, Lesotho and Gauteng. Beach Break Caf at Nahoon Beach was also thronging and hungry beach-goers had to queue on some days. barbarah@dispatch.co.za