More than 100 pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds will receive new stationery to help them for the academic year thanks to Omega Junior. The student-driven organisation collected stationery at Vincent Park yesterday morning.Founded by current Hudson Park head boy Thando Dyasi and current Grade 11 learner Obakhe Nkohla in 2015, Omega Junior serves as a network for high school students from all social backgrounds in the Border region of the Eastern Cape.Obakhe and Omega Junior member Bulelwa Dyasi held a stall in Vincent Park mall near Pick n Pay where people could drop off donations of stationery or cash.The proceeds will be given to pupils from various East London schools tutored by members of Omega Junior.Obakhe, 17, said donation points were also located at Spar outlets in Amalinda, Cambridge and Beacon Bay for the rest of the week.She and Thando started the organisation in an effort to overcome negative perceptions about maths and improve the low pass rate. As an organisation we want to witness the Eastern Cape producing higher pass rates in mathematics and high school students who have a better understanding of mathematics, she said. We want to bridge a gap that exists between learners in the different schools in East London. As a learner from Hudson I am privileged to afford a calculator that can give me answers as opposed to another learner in Mdantsane who not only struggles to understand mathematics but can t afford a calculator that can work out sums for them. The organisation currently has 25 student tutors made up of Hudson Park learners and other volunteers. It offers free math tutorial classes for high school learners from grades 10 to 12 every Wednesday.Obakhe said they were happy to be making a difference. There has been quite an improvement with our learners. One student from Mdantsane used to be on 30% average and has gone right up to the 60s. We are really happy to be making a difference and living up to the cause, she said.For more information call 063-074-5864 or e-mail theofficialomegajunior@gmail.com. qaqambam@dispatch.co.za