One of the first filling stations to employ a woman petrol attendant and open a Quickshop in the country changes hands this week after more than 30 years. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch at the Rowls Convenience Store in Bonza Bay on Friday, Rowlen and Christa von Gericko shared their success story.Rowlen, 62, a former Grens Primary School teacher and former Beaconhurst school governing body member, said this was an emotional time for them as a family after many years of service to the community. We ventured into the business when we decided to settle down and raise the children in a stable environment after years of travelling around the country doing projects through the construction company we owned at the time. We have served the Beacon Bay community for 30 years, beginning as Rowls Service Station with a Mobil forecourt and workshop on the corner of Sherwood Avenue and Major Square Road. Some of the milestones we are most proud of were starting the first car wash and convenience store in Beacon Bay. We were also among the first to employ women petrol attendants. Christa said the introduction of women attendants came when they realised how many mothers were transporting their children to and from school and the Von Gerickos realised they would be more comfortable being served by the same gender.The couple said they wanted to spend more time with each other while they were both still in good health and able to go on caravan holidays, and enjoy time with their grandchildren. I want to know what it feels like to just sleep in the whole day and read books, laughed Christa.Rowlen revealed that the couple had plans to sell their house, and travel with their caravan a bit before moving to their Port Alfred family home.The store is under the new ownership of Gary and Leonie Poovan, who were the candidates approved by Engen.The store has scooped several accolades over the years with awards for retail efficiency, dynamic service and top performance. The couple were named Engen Legends in 2011. These awards garnered them several holiday getaways to Singapore, Portugal, Greece and Malaysia.The couple attributed their success and accolades to their staff and customers. Our biggest assets are our staff, [looking after staff] has been our best recipe for sustaining the business over the years. You need to surround yourself with good people and look after them and throw in a bit of luck and you&#8217;re good to go, Rowlen said.Noluthando George, one of the longest serving staff members, has worked at the store for more than 20 years. She said it was an honour to have worked with the Von Gericko family. They are genuinely friendly people who are very compassionate. I would have never stayed here for this long if there was ever a time I did not feel like I was appreciated, she said.Christa, who is the mother of Eddie, Martha and Rowlen junior, said people often asked her how she managed to work with her husband for so many years. It has been a wonderful experience. We were each heading different departments so we were playing different roles. It has always been a great team effort. There were many happy moments and fun times. We became more excited when our daughter Marthie joined the business after she completed her hospitality degree. She managed the Steers and Debonairs eatery when we opened them in 2004. The couple also owned the Debonairs outlets in Hemingways Mall and Port Alfred where they have their holiday home, but they sold them. mbalit@dispatch.co.za