A wealthy East London businessman accused of stealing electricity now faces eviction and the possibility of a hefty fine for allegedly unauthorised building extensions. Buffalo City Metro said it found that Abbotsford Arms Pub and Grub and Pedro s Pizza, owned by prominent businessman Michael Osner, had been illegally extended without council-approved building plans.It further claimed that permission for alterations had not been sought from building owners Jose and Maria Branco, from whom Osner and his three directors Chrisanne Glover and Allen and Linda Gunn lease the premises.The businesses are situated next to each other on Main Road in Abbotsford.The metro and an attorney appointed by the Branco family, who owns Crave Meats butchery, confirmed they had taken Osner to task for allegedly illegally building a deck at Abbotsford Arms and a seating area for Pedro s Pizza over the parking area.Furthermore, the businesses three toilets, office and kitchen extensions at the back are said to have been built over a main sewer line without any plans submitted to council.Osner is the youngest son of late property tycoon Michael Micky Osner, who made a name for himself in the hotel business and was the owner of many large commercial and industrial properties.Osner and his partners declined to respond to written questions sent two weeks ago.Asked for comment yesterday, the parties declined again.Branco s attorney Raymond Simms told the Daily Dispatch the structural alterations had been done without the owner s consent. My client was very unhappy about this. My instruction is that we must proceed with civil action against the tenants Abbotsford Arms and the pizza place next door. We are busy attending to the issuing of summons. We will approach BCM, as well to find out what was going on in there and to assist us in the civil action. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said the municipality had written to Branco and Osner informing them to stop the illegal extensions after [Branco] failed to submit an approval building plan to BCM s building control division . BCM is in the process of taking legal action against the owner. The extensions have gone on for almost two years. Diamond said a fine of R100 for each day the extension had existed would be imposed in terms of the National Building Regulations and Building Standards Act.However, Simms said the fine should be tossed to Osner as I am sure my client will not foot the bill for any illegal alterations that is for sure .He said his client had entered into a five-year lease agreement. They have been there for two years now, Simms said.Asked when Osner was expected to demolish the structures, Diamond said: The deadline is within 30 days of the person being served with a letter. When a person has been served with a notice and fails to demolish the illegal extensions, the municipality serves them with another letter, which is 14 days in this case. If he ignores the second letter, the municipality takes legal action. Last month BCM electricity inspectors found that Osner had been using izinyoka, or illegal electricity connections, at Abbotsford Arms, Pedro s Pizza and Nahoon Arms.Contacted for comment at the time, Osner denied he had illegal electricity connections, saying he suspected it must have been from the previous tenant . zwangam@dispatch.co.za