Religious leaders have hit back at Mthatha-born gospel singer Yongama Mrwetyana, who recently accused Umhlobo Wenene FM s Nomonde Vakalisa of demanding a bribe. The singer alleged that Vakalisa, who presents a weekly gospel show, had asked for payment to interview him last year.Mrwetyana claimed he had no choice and paid R2000 to Vakalisa and was subsequently interviewed about his album and a live gospel show he was going to host in Mthatha.Vakalisa denied the accusations and said the musician had booked her to host an event. She said the R2000 was a deposit for her work outside of Umhlobo Wenene FM.Vakalisa was cleared after the SABC found no evidence of wrongdoing.Speaking to the Saturday Dispatch this week, religious leaders from Mthatha accused Mrwetyana of doing anything to put food on the table.Bishop Ndilekile Maqu accused the gospel singer of being a liar and bully after a number of personal encounters. When his lies catch up with him, he runs to the media to destroy other peoples reputation in an attempt to portray himself as a young, poor musician being taken advantage of, said Maqu.Maqu recalled a story which Mrwetyana wanted to buy 10 sheep from him for a gospel show he claimed would be hosted by Prophet TB Joshua and would feature Donnie McClurkin, among many international stars. I believed him and gave him the sheep which he claimed would be paid for after the show. This never happened. I discovered there was never a show planned and he refused to pay for the sheep he took, said Maqu.He said the singer had told a local newspaper that he had sold him demon-possessed sheep , which became wild and violent before disappearing the morning of the big event. My reputation was affected by this and Mrwetyana disappeared to Johannesburg till today. Pastor Andile Wili also echoed Maqu s sentiments. I know the show Nomonde Vakalisa is talking about. I sponsored it with R32000 for transport, accommodation and food for artists whom I was told were coming from afar. The artists never arrived and I was left to wonder what then happened to the sponsorship, said Wili.Ibandla LaseMthini s founder Tshepo Machaea, who has often dealt with Mrwetyana, said he was concerned about his character. I was one of the people he had put on the poster for the event that Nomonde was scheduled to MC. He didn t consult me before making the poster but as a parent I did not make an issue of that. Machaea said he has been trying to get hold of Mrwetyana for the past two weeks, to no avail. I really want to sit down with him. He needs to be fathered because what he is doing doesn t reflect the gospel. If he has issues with Nomonde he should have gone straight to Umhlobo Wenene FM or approach church leaders, Machaea said.Mrwetyana denied knowing Wili or Maqu when contacted by the Saturday Dispatch. All these pastors work with Tshepo Machaea and they are trying to protect Nomonde, he said.Commenting on claims that he was a liar and bully , Mrwetyana said the pastors were trying to tarnish his image.The SABC launched its investigation after Mrwetyana made the allegations against Vakalisa, and SABC s Kaizer Kganyago confirmed the case had been closed because the investigation could not find evidence of bribery. poliswap@dispatch.co.za