Some senior members in Thembu clans have angrily accused the ruling Dlomo royal clan of not doing enough to have King Buyelekhaya Zwelibanzi Dalindyebo released from jail. They claimed the royal family had done little or nothing to put pressure on the government to release the king.Mncedisi Mkutu, head of the Ndlane clan, said the Dlomo clan s apparent lack of action contrasted with the efforts of others, including other kings, the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa and members of the clergy, who had joined the #FreeOurKing campaign. They [Dlomo clan] are only concerned about fighting over the throne and they want to control the issues of succession among themselves as if the king is of amaDlomo, Mkutu said. They [make as though they are unaware of] the fact that the king is king of all Thembu, be they Dlomo or Ndlane, Bhomoyi or any other clan. A year has now passed since Zwelibanzi s incarceration, but we hear no word from them except squabbles over the succession. Dlomo elders yesterday rejected Mkutu s views.Chief Thanduxolo Mtirara, who is a supporter of Prince Mankunku Dalindyebo s bid to be acting king, and Chief Dumisani Mgudlwa, who supports King Dalindyebo s son, Prince Azenathi Dalindyebo, said the Ndlane had never been part of the Thembu royal family, and were merely ordinary traditional councillors without any claim to the hierarchy of the kingship. If they want to know or suggest something to the royal family, they must approach the royal family and not run to the media, they said.Mkutu said the Ndlane and other large Thembu clans had through history been kingmakers and intervened in royal succession, including in the times of Dlomo and Bhomoyi . When you speak about the royalty of Thembu, you cannot do that without mentioning Ndlane. This makes us part of the bigger royal family and we must have a say over the royal affairs of Thembu. One of the leaders of the #FreeOurKing campaign, Bishop Dalubuhle Plaatjie, said the movement continued to ask President Jacob Zuma to release King Dalindyebo. I met the president in May when he was in Ncorha [Cofimvaba] for the water project. He understood our concern, but wanted a formal appointment so that we can discuss the issue properly. But since then he has been busy and nothing has materialised. Plaatjie said he had been in constant contact with Dr Bongani Ngqulunga, the deputy director-general and head of the president s private office. There was a promise to meet the president at Nkandla over the Christmas holidays, but that did not materialise either. But we will not give up until we meet the president himself. Plaatjie said they had met Prince Azenathi, who was installed as acting king on November 25. We presented him with an office chair. But we are not siding with anyone in the succession battle. He said Prince Azenathi told them the release of his father was his top priority. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za