Joyful Noise creche principal Cindy Reely appeared in the King William’s Town Magistrate’s Court yesterday on a charge of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Reely is alleged to have bitten a six-year-old boy to give him “a taste of his own medicine” after he had bitten another boy in class. She appeared before presiding magistrate Nkosinathi Mjekula. State prosecutor Pamela Matinise told the court that copies of the docket were still outstanding. The prosecutor requested that the matter be postponed to December 11. Reely, who is out on free bail was warned to appear again on that date. The Dispatch reported last month about the plight of the boy’s 57-year-old grandmother who believed the state was dragging its feet in charging the creche principal. The grandmother of the child, who cannot be named to protect the identity of her grandson, said she opened the case in November last year. The case was referred to mediation to try and solve the matter out of court, but the livid grandmother said she had made it clear that Reely should face the full might of the law. But to the grandmother’s frustration, police have been dragging their feet in investigating the matter and when she enquired about the status of the probe, she was sent from pillar to post, she told the Saturday Dispatch. The weeping grandmother said she was shocked when she got home and was shown the teeth marks on the little boy’s arm. At the time, the grandmother said she had lost faith in the police as they allegedly failed to keep her abreast with developments in the case. After learning of Reely’s court appearance yesterday, the grandmother, who could not attend the court due to work commitments, said: “I am very happy and pleased, at least there is something happening now. We are moving and we will be there with the child’s mother at the next court appearance.” — zwangam@dispatch.co.za Seven months after arresting a Kwelera grandmother for assaulting an eight-year-old disabled boy, police have yet to finalise the case. Nozimbo Skade, 62, was arrested on January 21 by Blue Water police after allegedly hitting a disabled boy on the head with a plank. The child’s mother, who cannot be… September 2, 2015 The South African National Association for the Deaf (DeafSA) said it would provide an interpreter to help in the case of five deaf pupils accused of killing their deputy principal. The accused, aged between 18 and 23, made a brief appearance in the Mthatha Magistrate’s Court on a charge of… November 19, 2015 THE grandmother accused of chaining up her six- year-old grandson is likely to remain behind bars until her trial has been finalised. Police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Deneo Koena said it had been established that the 71-year- old woman from Qweqwe near Mthatha had been convicted before of a similar offence.… May 16, 2013