The Mandela family have expressed “utter indignation and dismay” at the allegations of corruption by government officials and politicians in preparation of the former president Nelson Mandela’s funeral in 2013.      Mandela’s grandson, Nkosi Mandla Mandela, said they were briefed by the National Prosecuting Authority on Wednesday morning at a King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality special council meeting on the public protector’s Mandela Funeral report. “We find it incredible that while we as a family, a nation and indeed the world were mourning the loss of our elder, icon, leader and statesman some people were allegedly conniving to profit financially by shamelessly siphoning off funds or alternatively allegedly not observing good governance in terms of following due protocol, observing delegations or mandates,” Mandla said. “Whatever the reason, it must be tested and tried in a court of law, ensuring that the criminal justice system takes its full course and, should the allegations be found to be true, the guilty parties should face the full wrath of the law.” Mandla said it was unfathomable that a legacy built on principled action, integrity and a high degree of ethical standards should be so sullied and associated with criminal intent. Public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane released her report on Monday, which painted a picture of how the money meant to prepare for Mandela’s funeral was misused. — Mandla Mandela‚ grandson of former South African president Nelson Mandela‚ ANC MP and chief of the Mvezo Traditional Council‚ says he is outraged that Madiba’s legacy was sullied by greedy profiteers. In a statement‚ he said he attended a briefing at a Special Council Meeting of the King Sabata Dalindyebo… December 14, 2017 WHILE the Mandela household remains in turmoil, the abaThembu royal family has vowed to intervene in the “critical and unstable” state it is in. Daludumo Mtirara, spokesman for the royal family, said it was imperative they protect former president Nelson Mandela’s widow Graça Machel and her dignity. “She is the… December 30, 2013 Nelson Mandela’s controversial grandson, Mandla, has come under heavy criticism for using a funeral to settle old scores and accuse people of false claims to be part of the world-famous Mandela family. Mandla’s attempt to stamp his authority as head of the family saw the funeral degenerate into chaos, according… April 30, 2015