Selborne College has distanced itself from a controversial portrait that has caused outrage and confusion on social media. The portrait, allegedly created by a pupil from the 2017 matric class of a prestigious East London boys’ school, shows two human-like dogs next to each other, one of the dogs, portrayed as a male, is carrying a face-less figure, while the other portrayed as a female appears to be running besides them with it’s mouth gasped. The words, “The class of 2017 Selborne College” are written  on it. Some social media users who shared the poster said the portrait was a spoof of the iconic Soweto uprising photograph of dying Hector Pieterson being carried by Mbuyisa  Makhubo with his sister, Antoinette Sithole, running beside them. The chairman of the governing body of Selborne College, Pierre Tilney, referred to the creation and posting of the portrait as “actions of individuals outside of the school”. “Selborne College and the governing body strongly distances itself and will continue to distance itself in the future from such actions. We are unable to assume responsibility for the actions of individuals outside of the school but certainly can apologise on their behalf for the unnecessary emotion and unhappiness that this image has created,” said Tilney. He added that the school had “unfortunately noticed this post which could possibly depict the ending of their school days. “However, we as a school and community, fully understand the sensitivity around this post and can only hope that the person who created and posted this image did not have any malicious intent.” Facebook and Twitter users who commented on the poster that was shared by a Selborne College pupil said they were offended by the  portrait and found it “distasteful”. The Selborne pupil who shared the poster on his Facebook page on Friday claimed the poster was created by the 2017 matriculants recently.   By MAMELA GOWA and ARETHA LINDEN The Eastern Cape department of education is investigating the controversial “Class of 2017 Selborne College” portrait which sparked an outcry when it surfaced online on Friday. The flag-sized image contains a grotesque caricature of the iconic 1976 photograph of a shot and dying Hector… December 4, 2017 The artist who created the controversial Selborne College class of 2017 poster has apologised for "any misunderstanding caused by the artwork", saying it was never meant to have any racism or prejudice in it. The school governing body at Selborne College issued a statement this morning giving the artist's explanation… December 2, 2017 ART collectors around the world are eagerly counting the days for a one-of-a-kind fundraising auction – that only features work by past and present Selborne College students. Showcasing everything from schoolboy doodles to works by famous South African artists who attended the school over the past 141 years, the Sons… October 11, 2013