A Port St Johns filmmaker received rave reviews at the Sondela Youth Film Festival for being the only producer of a horror movie.   Lucky Ndamase had two films screened at the festival, which was held in Aliwal North last Friday and Saturday. Speaking to the Daily Dispatch, Ndamase said he knew that the horror genre remained unexplored by local filmmakers and he wanted to produce a movie so different that it would get people talking. “I have seen a lot of Mzansi Magic movies and eKasi: Our stories and everyone seemed to be doing the same thing, comedy or love stories. “I just wanted to be different and daring and I guess it is now starting to pay off,” he explained. His two films screened at the festival were The Trap and Long Walk To My Dad. He said both movies offered life lessons for young people. “The Trap is about these girls who lie to their parents about their whereabouts and end up at a dilapidated hotel where they find themselves face-to-face with a serial killer. The lesson here is that one should always be transparent, especially with your parents, about where you are going. “The second film is about a young boy looking for his father but also about young children who roam the streets because they do not want to listen to their elders and run away from home,” said Ndamase. He said he realised early on that it would be difficult to make money from his films. “All we live for now is exposure, and that is why this festival was great because it means someone will see what you do and may even consider you next time a big local project comes around,” he said. The film festival was facilitated by Samora Gxala (script development), Pumza Nonduma (acting) and Aubrey Silinyana (directing and cinematography). The provincial event is funded by the department of sport, recreation, arts and culture, in association with the Joe Gqabi District Municipality. Silinyana said Ndamase proved to be innovative because he had managed to organise screenings himself in Port St Johns. — ziphon@
dispatch.co.za I'm a romcom movie kind of guy. I avoid horror movies like the plague – zombie thrillers even more so. So it took a special kind of stoicism to present myself for the Cape Town premiere of Last Ones Out, a full-length flick about zombies, by young Eastern Cape-born filmmaker… November 14, 2015 Disabled youth make movies THERE is Hollywood, Bollywood, Nollywood – and now a group of disabled youths are making their mark with Dollywood Productions. Three years of training, scripting and shooting are paying off for 12 aspiring filmmakers and actors from East London, and later this month their work will… July 16, 2013 Twelve years ago, Twiggy Matiwana left Grahamstown with R20 in her pocket and a dream to become a filmmaker in Johannesburg. Tonight her award-winning film will be screened at the National Arts Festival. Her trip from Joza to Jozi worried her family, who feared the big city would swallow her… June 29, 2017