The Director of Public Prosecutions in Grahamstown has reserved his decision on whether or not to prosecute double murder accused Buffalo City Metro ANC Ward 13 councillor Nokulunga Matiwane and her husband Mthuthuzeli Matiwane.  The pair appeared in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday where the DPP’s decision on the matter was due to be announced. However, state prosecutor Asanda Nolusu told presiding magistrate Robin Tyler that the DPP had reserved his decision, pending DNA results supposedly linking the two to the crime. The prosecutor asked the court to postpone the matter to February 5 next year to allow the state to acquire the DNA results and send them to the DPP for his decision. The case was postponed. Mthuthuzeli is in custody awaiting trial having earlier been denied bail. Nokulunga is out on R500 bail. It was the couple’s fourth court appearance since the August killing of two Reeston women, Nomboniso Twana, 54, and Nombulelo Mpitipiti, 50. Twana was an Expanded Public Works Programme (EPWP) supervisor having attained employment allegedly through the councillor. The two women were allegedly kidnapped and shot by Mthuthuzeli before their bodies were dumped over the cliff on the Buffalo Pass Road. — zwangam@dispatch.co.za The murder case against Buffalo City Metro ANC Ward 13 councillor Nokulunga Matiwane, 54, and her husband, Mthuthuzeli Matiwane, 60, was this morning postponed to December 15 for a decision by the Director of Public Prosecutions. The councillor and her husband appeared before East London magistrate Rochelle Sam where the… November 7, 2017 Double murder accused Mthuthuzeli Matiwane, 57, was denied bail in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday. Matiwane is the husband of Buffalo City Metro ANC ward 13 councillor Nokulunga Matiwane and they have five children together. He was arrested two weeks ago. The councillor was granted R500 bail by the… September 2, 2017 The East London Magistrate's Court has granted R500 bail pending trial to six people accused of torching two RDP houses and three vehicles belonging to 54-year-old Buffalo City Metro ANC Ward 13 councillor Nokulunga Matiwane. Matiwane's 23-year-old crippled daughter Nonkululeko Matiwane died in the house after she was trapped in… September 12, 2017