Berlin residents are in despair over cattle roaming in their area, saying complaints over many years go nowhere. East London SPCA chairwoman Annette Rademeyer said neither she nor Buffalo City Metro had the trailers needed to impound cattle. “Cows aren’t animals you can pick up and load onto trucks.” Fairfield residents say they have had it with cows coming into their yards, destroying their crops and fouling their clean washing for close to a decade, and attempts to speak to the owners do not help. Tammie Hamber, who has lived in the area for 10 years, said: “We can’t plant anything anymore. If they’re not in our yards they’re in the parks next to us.” When the Dispatch arrived the cows were grazing just metres from the houses. Attempts to reach the animals’ owner were unsuccessful. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said the metro’s health bylaws forbade livestock in urban areas. “They can cause pollution and transmit diseases to humans.” The metro was aware of the problem in Berlin, she added: “The environmental health unit has served the owners with notices to move the livestock to a suitable place and we have also escalated the issue to the city’s legal department.” The city conducted raids in joint operations with police, traffic authorities, the SPCA and the transport department, she added, “which avails the trucks to transport impounded animals”. Residents troubled by neighbours’ animals can phone: East London (043)705-2901/74; Mdantsane (043)705-9898/9848 and King William’s Town (043)604-8569. Dorchester Heights residents have called on Buffalo City Metro to enforce its bylaws and impound cattle, which they say have been roaming freely in the suburb for three weeks. The residents are worried that it is only a matter of time before an accident is caused by the cattle, which… September 27, 2017 Two farmers, whose escapee cow caused a motorcycle accident on the R367 outside Sterkstroom, have been found liable for damages. Despite having sound fences and two gates between the cow’s camp and the busy road, the Grahamstown high court has ruled that farming partners Edward Luppnow and Herbert Adams should… March 23, 2016 A small-scale farmer in Keiskammahoek has lost six cattle – including a prized ox – after they were electrocuted during a storm on Monday. Strong winds that accompanied the storm downed power lines, which later electrocuted the cattle after they came into contact with them. Peter’s Farm owner, Erol Tonono,… February 15, 2017