The SABC said that it regrets a decision by workers to embark on strike action on Thursday but that the stoppage will not affect programming. Management said it had met with unions last Friday and this Monday and put a revised offer to them. “The SABC offered both unions a 4.5% increase for the last six months of the financial year 2017/2018 for employees in the bargaining unit to be paid at a later stage‚ when the organization is financially stable‚” the SABC said in a statement. “Following this meeting‚ the unions then met with their members to provide feedback. It is regrettable to note that both Bemawu and CWU members declined the SABC’s offer and have decided to proceed with their strike action on Thursday‚ 14 December 2017.” The three-day strike clashes with the ANC national elective conference this weekend but the SABC said it would not interfere with scheduled broadcasts. “The SABC would like to assure the public that all the necessary measures will be put in place to make sure that the conference will be broadcast to the public of South Africa as planned‚” it said. “The organization also calls upon the striking employees not to intimidate their colleagues‚ who will be coming to work and proceed with their action in a dignified manner. It is important to note that the principle of no work‚ no pay will apply.” Management said it would continue engaging with the unions.       SABC management have offered to enter into mediation on Friday to break a wage deadlock and prevent further disruptions to programming. The proposal comes a day before the ANC's elective conference‚ which could be hampered by the absence of dozens of SABC staff. The strike gained traction on Thursday‚ garnering… December 15, 2017 The South African Broadcasting Corporation’s (SABC) Board and management on Saturday announced a wage deal with one union‚ following what it called "a difficult period". The deal comes after members of the Broadcasting‚ Electronic Media and Allied Workers Union (Bemawu) and the Cosatu-aligned Communication Workers’ Union downed tools from Thursday‚… December 16, 2017 Ukhozi FM‚ one of South Africa’s biggest radio stations‚ has since Thursday morning not broadcast any news bulletins due to a strike at the SABC. An SABC spokesperson denied that there were any disruptions at the station‚ but an employee who asked not to be named confirmed there had not… December 14, 2017