A message  on social media calling for 10200 matriculants to apply for next year’s Funza Lushaka Teacher Bursary Programme is a hoax, the Department of Basic Education said yesterday. DBE spokesman Terence Khala distanced the department from the message and warned people against falling victim to it. The message, which was widely circulated on social media platforms, raised the hopes of thousands wanting to study further but who do not have the financial muscle to do so. The Funza Lushaka Bursary Programme is a multiyear programme to promote teaching as a profession. Bursary recipients are required to teach at a public school for the same number of years that they receive the bursary. The fake message states that the 10200 candidates will be selected from all provinces to be trained as teachers and the bursary will cover registration and tuition fees, as well as meal and accommodation costs. It further states that the students will also be paid allowances for practical work done. The department has advised those interested in applying for the bursary to go to its official website to find the correct information. “The message is fake and not the property of DBE,” Khala said. — arethal@dispatch.co.za The university careers of a group of Alphendale Senior Secondary School matriculants hangs in the balance after officials bungled their bursary applications. Officials at the East London Rubusana district office are accused of botching the awarding of Funza Lushaka bursaries to matriculants who wanted to study to become teachers. Now… February 3, 2016 Scores of students funded by government at the University of Fort Hare (UFH) are demanding their bursary change from the institution. On Wednesday, students studying towards a qualification in teaching said they were among more than 200 beneficiaries for Funza Lushaka bursary, whose change for bursary funding had not been… October 24, 2014 Bhisho is hoping a new leadership programme will bring discipline to its education officials. The plan, expected to be phased in during May, was revealed by acting provincial education superintendent-general Siza Netshilaphala while addressing reporters at a media briefing yesterday. This after the province performed dismally in matric results last… February 18, 2016