Teacher development focused only on English and not vernacular languages will never make an impact in the Eastern Cape’s education. That’s according to the editor-in-chief and director for IsiXhosa National Lexicography Unit at the University of Fort Hare, Zola Wababa. He said the department of education’s joint venture with the National Education Collaboration Trust (NECT) to train 30000 teachers and curriculum advisers in English and English first additional language would not advance education in the province. Earlier this week, the Dispatch reported on the department and NGO NECT’s programme, to be rolled out next year, which will provide support to English, maths and natural science teachers. This will be a two-year programme. According to the department, the plan is to support teachers in their efforts to complete the curriculum at the best pace for the grade, using a tracker and providing them with support materials and training. Wababa said while this was a noble idea which he supported, it was unlikely to come up with anything new. “Chasing English only in a province where we know for sure that learners speak isiXhosa mainly, and some Sesotho, is a waste of time and resources,” he said. “To be realistic, teaching situations in rural and township schools needs a holistic or pragmatic teaching approach which is blended with vernacular languages. “It does not matter how much teaching materials [is] invested in education, [if you continue to ignore] vernacular languages. We seem to be far from addressing the ills of our education. Good and meaningful education starts and ends with language,” he said. He said he was concerned that the department’s programme would exclude isiXhosa. “IsiXhosa as both a language and medium of teaching is an engine cylinder amongst others for the education of the Eastern Cape. If you ignore it, forget,” he said. Wababa’s sentiments came a day after the 2016 Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS) indicated that 80% of pupils in Grade 4 could not read. “PIRLS only focuses on reading and writing – imagine the situation in numeracy and mathematics. It is even worse than we think,” Wababa said. Provincial education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said there were plans to extend the programme in the near future and include other subjects such as isiXhosa. “We are mindful that isiXhosa is a dominant language in the province and we are moving to uphold the isiXhosa language in schools, especially in rural areas,” said Mtima. – arethal@dispatch.co.za UMLUNGUS are from Europe or Pondoland – and that is official. Last week, the meaning of the Xhosa word used for decades by black people to identify white people, and adopted by many whites after 1994, came under scrutiny after a racial fight in East London. Gearbox and tow garage… November 21, 2016 The Pan South African Language Board declared February as the month to promote the use of all South African languages. I write to echo this idea, which seeks to enhance the status of all our languages and also to reflect on what Ngugi wa Thiong’o taught me during the Steve… March 3, 2017 The provincial education department has increased the number of Eastern Cape schools using isiXhosa as a medium of instruction. The number has increased dramatically from 74 to 310 in recent months. This while grades where teaching is done in isiXhosa have been extended to include Grade 4. The move is… July 31, 2017