It was a joyful moment for children in Frere Hospital’s paediatric wards when they received Christmas gifts from doctors on the hospital’s board yesterday.    Doctors and porters moved through three wards pushing two large laundry trollies loaded with wrapped Christmas gifts. They stopped at every bed, and handed children, some with drips and bandages, their gifts. The children laughed, and those who could, jumped. All wore huge smiles. “We are happy to see the doctors coming here and giving gifts to our children. At least this will distract them from thinking about the pain they are in,” said Nonkululo Ntla, 56, of Dimbaza, who is the granny of a 10-year-old boy who was about to have an operation on his appendix. Grandmother Elowethu Nqina from King William’s Town said doctors had already done so much for the children on the medical front, and now they were cheering their little charges with Christmas gifts. Nqina said her grandson was paralysed for two months after being injured in a rugby game. Nqina said she was hoping to spend New Years’ day in the comfort of her home. Doctor Helmut Fritsche, a Frere board member, said: “We decided to distribute presents to the patients so they can also enjoy Christmas knowing that we care for them and we want them to be happy. We were glad to have contributed. “With all the pain they go through, specifically with oncology (cancer), it brings us great joy to see them smiling when they receive their gifts.” Fritsche said the board felt the gifts were also a help for emotionally distressed child patients. President of the South African Medical Association, Doctor Marina Xaba-Mokoena said: “We want to ensure that patients are comfortable and happy. “It is very unfortunate for those who are in hospital over Christmas and we chose to show empathy and sympathy to them,” she said. Frere CEO Doctor Rolene Wagner said: “We appreciate everything that the board has done. We interact and engage with them so as to find direction on the kind of services we should provide to our communities. They give us an idea of what the community wants or what we should be providing to the communities. “The board plays an integral role in supporting the management, as well as ensuring that we provide services.”