The military were seen out and about in Mdantsane’s NU3 yesterday as Defence Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula prepared for her father Douglas Mapisa’s requiem mass ahead of his funeral this morning. The former teacher and sports administrator died on December 3 at the Cecilia Makiwane Hospital, after a battle with prostate cancer. Last night politicians, clad in their church wear, were among the dignitaries who attended the mass at the Holy Cross Anglican church which was packed with 400 friends, family and fans. Among them was Bhisho legislature speaker Noxolo Kiviet. Military police on motor bikes could be seen outside the Holy Cross Anglican Church from as early as 9am ahead of the mass. The former boxing fan and ring announcer will be laid to rest today, after a church service at the Abbotsford Christian Centre. Mapisa, who died aged 96, is survived by his three children – Nosiviwe, Siviwe and Nosithembele. Siviwe told the Daily Dispatch his family was overwhelmed by the support and love shown by the community and public at large. “It has been a difficult time for our family but we have seen him in pain, ravaged by prostate cancer, and we are at peace knowing he is in a better place,” Siviwe said. Scores of people attended the body-viewing held at the family home yesterday between 3pm and 5pm before proceeding to the mass. Siviwe said the family would collect his body today from the funeral parlour in King William’s Town and head to the Abbotsford Christian Centre, where drum majorettes would herald the body arrival. “Tata loved majorettes. Everywhere he taught he took his set of drums and started a drum majorettes team, and girl guides and scouts, so we saw it fit that he be led by them into his last church ceremony.” Mapisa’s neighbour, Sinethemba Gaca, 28, said he had been cutting Mapisa’s hair since he returned to Mdantsane from Bhisho in 2008. “I have learnt so much from tatomkhulu – he always shared his words of wisdom with me and it was always a pleasure being in his presence.” — mbalit@dispatch.co.za Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula’s father will be laid to rest next Thursday in East London. The funeral service of the minister’s father, Douglas Mapisa, will be held at Abbotsford Christian Centre from 9am. The 96-year-old died on Sunday after a long illness at Cecilia Makiwane Hospital. Family… December 9, 2017 Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula landed in East London yesterday to be with her family following the passing of her father on Sunday night but managed to avoid both an ANC welcoming committee and the media. It was later discovered Mapisa-Nqakula had used a different exit and… December 8, 2017 The ANC Youth League in the Eastern Cape has resolved to lobby the league’s national executive committee (NEC) to include Mdantsane-raised Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula for the position of ANC national chairwoman. The NEC did not propose any Eastern Cape names for the top six for when the party elects its new… July 26, 2017