Nelson Mandela’s eldest grandson Nkosi Mandla Mandela has saluted people who publicly announce their HIV-Aids status saying this would help dismantle the walls of stigmatisation and, in doing so, decrease levels of infection. In January 2005, Mandela publicly announced that his son Makgatho – Mandla’s father – had died of Aids complications. Mandla last week wrote from Lahore in Pakistan: “Today we stand united with the brave soldiers all over the world who relentlessly pursue the battle against HIV-Aids. I salute my compatriots in South Africa who, in the face of an insurmountable task, have persevered in the battle against this pandemic so that we may each day claim a new victory,” said the ANC MP. His comments were read out at a World Aids Day event held in Mthatha on Thursday. “The real courageous heroes that deserve our praise and applause are those who, without fear of chastisement or ostracisation, have proclaimed their status so that the stigma of HIV-Aids may be broken. It is such heroes that have given hope and courage to those suffering in silence.” He called on all citizens to commit to striving for a world free from poverty and inequality, “where we can all enjoy freedom, justice and peace”. “It is my hope and prayer that the day will dawn when we finally lay HIV-Aids to rest. When there is no longer any risk to the children of the future of contracting it. When the billions we spend on it can be used to provide shelter for the poor, food for the destitute and restore honour and dignity to all,” said the Mvezo traditional leader. When Nelson Mandela announced the cause of his son’s death, he said: “Let us give publicity to HIV-Aids and not hide it, because the only way to make it appear like a normal illness like TB, like cancer, is always to come out and say somebody has died because of HIV-Aids, and people will stop regarding it as something extraordinary.” — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za NELSON Mandela’s grandson Mandla spoke yesterday of how Aids had robbed him of his father. Mandela issued the statement as he joined the campaign to fight Aids by talking about his father‚ Makgatho Lewanika Mandela. Mandla said great strides had been taken since his father died‚ especially after his grandfather… December 2, 2015 Mandla Mandela says that AIDS robbed him of his father. In a statement issued on Tuesday‚ the grandson of Nelson Mandela joined the campaign to fight AIDS by talking about his father‚ Makgatho Lewanika Mandela. Mandla said great strides had been taken since his father died‚ especially after Nelson Mandela moved… December 1, 2015 Chief Mandla Mandela has come out in support of his sister‚ Ndileka Mandela‚ who bravely revealed that she had been raped five years ago by a boyfriend. Ndileka set social media abuzz when she took to Facebook on Tuesday to tell her story. She was raped in her own bedroom… October 25, 2017