The price of petrol is set for a month-end decrease of around ten cents a litre.  This is according to the Automobile Association (AA)‚ commenting on unaudited mid-month fuel price data released by the Central Energy Fund (CEF). The AA said slight decreases in the fuel price are being predicted on mixed news from the currency markets and international oil trade. “The Rand gained ground against the US dollar since the beginning of December‚ notwithstanding political turbulence in the run-up to the ANC’s electoral conference. “However‚ some of the gains were offset by a spike in international petroleum prices in the first two weeks of December.” The current data also shows diesel and illuminating paraffin could drop by around six cents. “The political landscape after the ANC electoral conference‚ as well as international economic sentiment on the oil market‚ will probably be the key indicators for the fuel price at month end‚” the AA said. “At the moment‚ our expectation is that the status quo will be maintained‚ with only slight changes at the pumps for January.” TimesLIVE Stronger international petroleum prices are likely to hit South Africans hard at the pumps at the beginning of 2017‚ the Automobile Association (AA) predicts. Commenting on unaudited mid-month fuel price data released by the Central Energy Fund (CEF)‚ the AA said “the indicative increase in fuel prices at the end… December 14, 2016 Encouraging mid-month fuel price data has been buoyed by receding international petroleum prices‚ meaning good news for motorists in August. This is according to the Automobile Association‚ which was commenting on unaudited data released by the Central Energy Fund (CEF) this week. The AA said current data indicated that the… July 29, 2015 Motorists can look forward some good news as fuel prices look set to drop in January. The Automobile Association (AA) of South Africa made the prediction based on unaudited mid-December fuel price data from the Central Energy Fund. The organisation has suggested that the price cut would be a “hefty… December 18, 2014