President Jacob Zuma’s decision to offer free education to first-year students in 2018 should be welcomed if the country can afford it‚ the chairperson of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme said on Monday. “The decision has to be welcomed‚ assuming that the country can afford to do all of that‚” NSFAS chair Sizwe Nxasana said on Radio 702. On Saturday Zuma announced that free higher education for poor and working-class students would be introduced for first-year students in 2018 and fully phased in over five years. He revised the definition of poor and working-class students to “currently enrolled TVET (technical and vocational education and training) colleges or university students from South African households with a combined annual income of up to R350‚000”. Nxasana said the government would need to work with the private sector and “give them not just funding but also make sure we are producing the kind of skills the country desperately needs to grow our economy”. He said NSFAS would continue to administer financial aid. National Student Financial Aid Scheme chairman Dr Sizwe Nxasana has rejected a Fees Commission report recommendation that the funding scheme be replaced by income-contingent loans offered by commercial banks. He was speaking yesterday at his alma mater, Walter Sisulu University’s Mthatha campus, where he donated more than 36000 books –… November 17, 2017 Higher education and training Minister Blade Nzimande has emphasised that free higher education for all will not be possible in SA’s current socio-economic environment. Speaking during a debate in Parliament on Tuesday evening on whether free higher education for all is possible‚ Nzimande said those who can afford to pay… November 30, 2016 THE appointment of a businessman of high repute like Sizwe Nxazana as chairman of the National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) will be widely welcomed, but should not be seen as the answer to all the problems besetting the government’s bursary scheme for financially strapped students.As a former chief executive… August 7, 2015