Since the release of Amazulu‚ Amanda Black’s shine has been unstoppable and the singer credits God’s presence for the great year she’s had. With everything Amanda has achieved as a musician‚ it hard to believe that November was her album‚ Amazulu’s first anniversary. Speaking to TshisaLIVE the singer shared how her journey has been. “The journey has been incredible. There’s the ups and the downs‚ but man it is still surreal at times. You know when I am on stage and people are singing my songs back to me‚ word for word‚ I just wonder ‘is this me? Is this my life?’ I’ve had an amazing beginning.” Amanda was first introduced to Mzansi on singing competition Idols SA but she didn’t end up winning the title. She was‚ however‚ snatched up by Ambitiouz Entertainment which helped launch her career. Another thing Amanda’s fans have praised her for is her amazing performances. Complete with the closing of her eyes and‚ at times‚ tears‚ Amanda explained that something takes over when she sings and after thinking about‚ she’s concluded that it is God. “I thought about it and I’ve decide it is God. It’s so spiritual. Like I love music and whenever I’m on stage I relive the intense emotions in the songs. I disappear into the music and sometimes I feel like it’s not even me. I have concluded that it’s a higher power found only in music.” Amanda has not only dominated the airwaves since her debut album was released but she has also scored herself international recognition and local music awards. From the BETs straight to the SAMAs‚ there’s no doubt that the world stood up and took notice of the talent that is Amanda Black. After being rejected by Idols SA on numerous occasions‚ Amanda Black used US singer Jennifer Hudson’s journey to success to inspire her. Amanda‚ who first tried out on the singing competition at age 16 was rejected by the show three times. During a recent interview with Drum Amanda said that… March 24, 2017 Amanda Black has admitted that the pressure of her debut album Amazulu has made her “afraid” of being a one hit wonder because of the success of the song. The award-winning singer released a platinum selling album titled Amazulu filled with hit songs last year. Amanda opened up to Anele… May 24, 2017 Singing sensation Nathi Mankayi’s sister Amanda is taking the airwaves by storm with the release of her single, Intonga yam. Amanda released the single featuring Nathi last month and has been receiving major airplay on stations such as Metro FM. The two are now signed under the same label, Muthaland… April 12, 2016