ANC leaders have made the unusual move of openly stating who they voted for in the party’s leadership race. ANC spokesman and national executive committee Zizi Kodwa declared on Twitter that he was backing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa‚ who is up against Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma for the top position.  ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu also came out in support of Ramaphosa.  The endorsements follow a similar confidence booster from National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete on Saturday. Mbete had also campaigned to take over from President Jacob Zuma but did not garner enough votes from branches in the nine provinces. Four provinces were still due to vote in Nasrec‚ Soweto‚ on Monday morning‚ namely the Eastern Cape‚ Gauteng‚ Limpopo and KwaZulu-Natal. Voting results are expected in the afternoon. Around 4‚700 delegates are expected to make their mark. The conference‚ which started on Saturday‚ got off to a shaky start after disputes over accreditation delayed the programme by a day. The squabbles arose from court rulings that disqualified about 400 delegates from voting at the conference. The nomination process for the top six leadership positions finally kicked off on Sunday evening‚ but was again disrupted by complaints over how voting should proceed. After the issues were addressed‚ election officials began preparations for the ballot process to unfold. Voting started around midnight. Zuma insider Zizi Kodwa assumes key role. THE ANC has appointed Goodenough “Zizi” Kodwa as the party’s new national spokesman. Kodwa, who was sworn in as an ANC member of parliament (MP) last week after being voted the 22nd most popular ANC leader to go to parliament, resigned yesterday to… May 27, 2014 There are no discussions underway to remove ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe‚ the party said in a statement on Monday. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said reports – citing nameless sources who claim that the special national executive committee meeting currently underway was discussing removing Mantashe from his post – were incorrect.… November 13, 2017 The ANC national executive committee will meet this morning to unpack the two High Court judgments delivered yesterday, which could impact on the number of voting delegates attending the party's 54th elective conference. ANC spokesman Zizi Kodwa said the meeting would deal with courts' decision to nullify the provincial executive… December 16, 2017