The bodies of two medical students who drowned in Cuba earlier this month have been brought back to South Africa for burial. The bodies of Sibusiso Thanks Ngeleka from KwaNzimakwe near Port Edward on the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast and Sihle Cebo Makhaye from Manguzi on the North Coast arrived at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg on Sunday. The KZN health department said the two students will be buried separately on Tuesday and Wednesday this week. The fourth and fifth-year medical students had been part of a group of students who had hired a house to celebrate the birthday party of one of their fellow South African students in Havana when the tragedy occurred. It is alleged that during the party‚ they decided to go and “cool down” in the swimming pool. But when they did not return‚ their friend started a frantic search for them. Makhaye was discovered inside the pool and rushed to hospital but died on the way while Ngeleka was already dead when he was discovered in the pool. The two students were part of 2‚885 South African medical students studying in Cuba as part of the Nelson Mandela-Fidel Castro medical training programme which started in 1996. Their tragic death comes after a third-year student from the same programme committed suicide in August. AN EASTERN Cape medical student who was expelled from an exchange programme between South Africa and Cuba has been given a second chance . Lindani Magade was among 12 medical students expelled from the programme over strike action early this year. The students returned to South Africa in February after… April 17, 2013 Former Cuban president Fidel Castro‚ who died on Friday aged 90‚ was part of the struggle against apartheid‚ President Jacob Zuma said on Saturday. “President Castro … inspired the Cuban people to join us in our own struggle against apartheid. The Cuban people‚ under the leadership and command of President… November 26, 2016 Fidel Castro, the Cuban revolutionary leader who built a communist state on the doorstep of the United States and for five decades defied US efforts to topple him, died on Friday, his younger brother announced to the nation. He was 90. A towering figure of the second half of the… November 26, 2016