Minister of Defence and Military Veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula landed in East London yesterday to be with her family following the passing of her father on Sunday night but managed to avoid both an ANC welcoming committee and the media. It was later discovered Mapisa-Nqakula had used a different exit and her entourage was seen leaving the airport. It could not be established whether the minister was aware of the regional ANC party leaders waiting for her at the arrivals terminal. ANC acting regional secretary in the DR WB Rubusana region, Mkhawuleli Maleki, said the party wanted to send its deepest sympathy to the Mapisa family. Douglas Mapisa died at Cecilia Makiwane Hospital in East London after a long illness. He was known to be an avid boxing fan who had been a ring announcer since the 1970s. Maleki said: “We share her pain and while tata was sick, it is never easy to lose a family member. She must remember the good tata did so she can find comfort. This will help her be strong to be the pillar of strength for her family.” Buffalo City Metro council speaker Alfred Mtsi said the elderly Mapisa, who was 96 when he died, contributed greatly to sport development. He said the role government will play in his funeral cannot be predicted until arrangements had been made. “But we know when extraordinary people are buried, government always helps. So we will probably provide services such as traffic services and halls,” he said. President Jacob Zuma also extended his condolences to the family. “We wish to express our deepest condolences to Minister Mapisa-Nqakula and her family at this hour. May they find strength to cope with the difficulty and deep-seated pain that the passing of a parent brings to any household. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Mapisa and Nqakula families at this trying time,” Zuma said. — zolilem@tisoblackstar.co.za The ANC Youth League in the Eastern Cape has resolved to lobby the league’s national executive committee (NEC) to include Mdantsane-raised Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula for the position of ANC national chairwoman. The NEC did not propose any Eastern Cape names for the top six for when the party elects its new… July 26, 2017 ANC MP and staunch president Jacob Zuma critic Charles Nqakula would take it on the chin should his wife, minister of defence and military veterans Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula be fired from cabinet. Nqakula was responding to a question during the Daily Dispatch and University of Fort Hare Dialogues in East London… July 29, 2017 THE man behind the introduction of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) in the province has defected back to the ANC. Former EFF provincial chairman and legislature leader Themba Wele yesterday changed his red beret for the more familiar black ANC one from his ANCYL days. The ANC went all out… June 13, 2016