Deputy Minister of Communications Tandi Mahambehlala will tomorrow officially hand over boxing equipment worth over R100000 to Rumble Africa Boxing Promotions (RABP) in Duncan Village. The minister was in Duncan Village last Saturday to handover the sponsored equipment to the boxers under the banner of Rumble Africa Promotions, but the rest of the heavy equipment was not delivered on time by the courier. These include competition and sparring gloves, hook and jab bags, body protectors, groin abdominal protector, full face headgears, skipping ropes, mouthguards, boxing boots, punching bags, and headshot bags and speeding platforms. RABP chief operations manager, Nomfesane Nyatela, said Mahambehlala once came to their tournaments and saw Azinga Fuzile box. “That’s when she became interested in what we do here and she wanted to see where the young champion gym is, and after she went to our gym she wanted to help get a sponsor for gym equipment. “They bought us everything from the boxing ring to punching and everything else that’s supposed to be housed by a boxing gym. We also have been waiting for a lease agreement that we got last week Friday. We also have a contractor that will help refurbish the premises. “They will put in basic gym needs like showers for the boxers to freshen up and also install a proper gym floor, because you can’t have tiles in a gym because people will slip and fall. “So they will start anytime from now,” said Nyatela. SPONSORS BOOST BOD “She will return to hand over the rest of the equipment and watch the Rumble in the Jungle tournament. Khayiso Pikinini Siko, who will also be fighting on Sunday, received a digital terrestrial television along with three other of our boxers.” She said as Rumble Africa they were happy that there was someone who finally supported them as they usually do everything on their own. “Even now we are going into this tournament without a sponsor but we are very much happy, because this is not only about Azinga, it’s also about other boxers that are with us. This gym will keep our boxers in the province and stop looking for greener pastures like Gauteng. “Now the treadmill will be available for them at Duncan (Village) and they will also be able to shower at the gym. “ All those things they see in well established gyms they will find it in our gym. “And kids are appreciative of this good gesture by the deputy minister.” Deputy Communications Minister Tandi Mahambehlala yesterday led a broadcasting digital migration awareness campaign in East London when she connected four decoders to homes. The four households in Ziphunzana’s D Section are part of 20 houses that will be connected to the system. To qualify for the government subsidised decoders, which… December 2, 2017 The sensational Azinga Fuzile will be back in the ring and already excitement is reaching fever pitch in anticipation of him putting on another classic performance. Fuzile will battle for the WBC youth featherweight title against Giorgi Gochisvili of Georgia at Mdantsane Indoor Centre on December 9. The boxing world is… December 2, 2016 The huge interest generated by the eagerly anticipated clash between two boxers from Mdantsane and Duncan Village has prompted the organisers to put the fight in sports bets. The clash will be between Mdantsane hero Macbute Sinyabi defending his SA featherweight title against Duncan Village prospect Azinga Fuzile at Orient… August 25, 2016