December 5: Former President Nelson Mandela dies.
December 6: Premier Noxolo Kiviet’s cabinet resolves that ECDC will finance Mandela memorials and funeral logistics.
December 11: Buffalo City Metro council resolves to set aside R10-million for Mandela memorials.
December 13: BCM pays R5.98-million to Victory Ticket 750CC to transport mourners to memorials.
December 13: ANC hosts provincial memorial service in Port Elizabeth.
December 15: Mandela is buried.
January 25: Saturday Dispatch reveals how the R5.98-million was doled out to companies with political connections, and ANC regional leader Pumlani Mkolo is identified as a central figure.
January 26: MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane announces his department will investigate the scandal.
January 31: Council meeting where mayor Zukiswa Ncitha is scheduled to table the taxi report is invaded by striking workers.
February 11: BCM politicians and senior administrators are summoned to ANC provincial offices in King William’s Town to account.
February 11: Ncitha blocks Hawks from investigating at City Hall.
February 11: ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane instructs BCM to compile another report that is “comprehensive and credible”.
February 17: Dispatch links ECDC to Victory Ticket.
February 19: The Mandela memorial report is tabled to council, but councillors could not agree on whether it should be investigated internally or by forensic investigators. The matter is deferred.
February 19: Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s provincial office announces it will investigate.
February 21: ANC boss Gwede Mantashe instructs party leaders to act against those who unlawfully benefited.
February 26: Mkolo tells BCM ANC councillors to just note the taxi scandal report and refer it to Qoboshiyane’s office for investigation.
February 27: Councillors refer the matter to Qoboshiyane’s office for investigation.
March 12: Dispatch reveals Hawks reported Ncitha to Qoboshiyane for February 11 incident.
March 15: ECDC board summons management to a meeting to account for millions spent separately on memorials.
March 18: ECDC CEO Sithembele Mase gets suspended and sources say Hawks are investigating.