Bathers‚ anglers‚ paddlers and sail boarders were warned on Sunday to exercise extreme caution around the coast due to the new moon spring tide. “Beach bathers and shoreline anglers are most at risk‚” said National Sea Rescue Institute spokesman Craig Lambinon. Bathers were advised to “swim at beaches only where lifeguards are on duty” and ensure that children were under proper adult supervision. “Anglers fishing along the shoreline‚ particularly along rocks on the shoreline‚ are at greatest risk during the spring tide where incoming waves during the high tides engulf higher than normal over rocks‚” Lambinon said in a statement. “Anglers should not turn their back to the sea and should be vigilant and cautious of the wave action at all times while fishing.” The spring tide will peak on Monday but its effects will be felt over the coming week. The NSRI were involved in at least four rescues at the weekend. A father and his two sons had to be rescued after launching their new rubber-duck in Gansbaai in the Western Cape on Saturday. The boat capsized and ended up on rocks. A second row-boat that went to help also ended up on rocks in the kelp line. NSRI swimmers got everybody back onto the shore. A 25-year-old man went missing at sea in East London early on Sunday. “We believe that a group of people were swimming when the missing man was caught in rip currents before disappearing under water‚” said Lambinon. The NSRI Table Bay crew went to the assistance of a yacht‚ Kula‚ with three crew that was stranded and needed a tow at Granger Bay in Cape Town on Saturday. And a man and 12-year-old whose dinghy capsized while they were fishing in the Port of Richards Bay were rescued on Saturday. The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) has warned the public to be extra cautious along the country’s coastline during the full moon spring tide that will prevail until after the Easter weekend. “This Full Moon Spring Tide‚ which peaked at full moon‚ 11th April‚ will cause stronger than normal rip… April 14, 2017 Bathers have been warned about the dangerous combination of storm surf and high spring tides slamming into Eastern Cape shores this weekend. Already on Wednesday, Free State holidaymakers Ruan Coetzer and his teenage son Ludwig were rescued after spending up to three hours clinging to the hull of their fishing… March 25, 2016 The national Sea Rescue Institute has warned beach goers to be extra vigilant over the festive season because of a new moon spring tide creating stronger than normal rip currents along the coast in New Year. “Bathers and shoreline anglers are most at risk and extreme caution is advised,” NSRI… December 23, 2014