Mlungisi police have opened an inquest after the head of a baby was found in an open space in Nomzamo location in Komani. Police Captain Namhla Mdleleni said anyone with information on the mother of the baby to please contact the police. “The police are doing everything in their power to try and find the mother. At the moment we have been trying without any luck,” said Mdleleni. She said people with information can contact the police on 086 001 0111. Nomzamo Neighbourhood Watch spokesperson Mnqophiso Naye said the baby was seen by residents of the Nomzamo informal settlement who went to the toilet. “As the community leader the people came to me to report the incident. I noticed that only the head of the baby was left and the other parts were missing,” he said. Naye said it looks like dogs ate the body and left the head. “We don’t know who the mother of the baby is and we rely on the people from Mlungisi to please come forward with information,” he said. Naye said as the neighbourhood watch they are working closely with the police in trying to find the mother of the baby. East London police have opened an inquest docket after a foetus was dumped near Gonubie High School yesterday afternoon. Police spokesman, Lieutenant-Colonel Mtati Tana confirmed this, saying no one has been arrested. “The police rushed to the scene after a phone call about the gruesome find and they found what… November 18, 2014 A new-born baby weighing 4kg wrapped in a plastic bag was found inside a rubbish bin outside Tops Liquor Store in Malcomess Mall in Southernwood on Thursday morning. The gruesome discovery was made by a homeless beggar scavenging for food in the bin. Centre manager Eric Moss said the "big"… June 2, 2017 A man accused of raping his neighbours – a grandmother, 85, and her granddaughter, 13 is due to appear in court this morning. The grandmother and granddaughter were fast asleep in the early hours of Friday in Yonda village, Whittlesea when a man broke into their house, said police spokeswoman… February 8, 2016