Former Deputy Chief Justice, Dikgang Moseneke was honoured with a law doctorate from the Nelson Mandela University (NMU), making him the first recipient of an honorary doctorate since university was renamed and rebranded.  Moseneke was among 1 728 graduates, including 31 doctorates, that were capped on Thursday and yesterday. In his acceptance speech after being capped by outgoing chancellor Santie Botha, Moseneke said he felt privileged to receive an honorary law doctorate from the only institution in the world to bear the name of the revered statesman. “I am at a loss of words and this is because of my undiluted gratitude to this great university, its leaders, its academy, students, the people and the community it has served so well for many years,,” said Moseneke. NMU spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela said Moseneke was honoured by the university for his towering legal mind and unwavering commitment to fairness and justice as an independent-thinking and imaginative jurist. Moseneke urged graduates to strive towards being upright citizens committed to becoming agents of change. — arethal@dispatch. Former Deputy Chief Justice of the Constitutional Court Dikgang Moseneke is swapping the robes of the judiciary for the robes of academia. On Friday‚ it was announced that the recently retired Moseneke has been appointed Honorary Professor of Bioethics in the Steve Biko Centre for Bioethics‚ Faculty of Health Science… June 24, 2016 Executors of the estate of late former president Nelson Mandela announced that they still needed to consult the family of the anti-apartheid icon with a view to setting up public access to his resting place. Mandela‚ the first president of the democratic SA‚ passed away in December 2013 in Johannesburg.… May 27, 2016 Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa says the newly launched Nelson Mandela University must strive to uphold all the values the icon it is named after stood for‚ including non-racialism‚ non-sexism‚ honesty‚ truth and integrity. Ramaphosa delivered the keynote address at the university’s official renaming ceremony at its Missionvale Campus on Thursday.… July 20, 2017