After decades of entering competitions with no luck, Diane Weber finally struck gold with the Daily Dispatch R10000 Festive Shopping Spree. The 68-year-old Vincent resident, who was named as the latest winner of the competition in yesterday’s paper, claimed her prize at the Dispatch offices in Beacon Bay yesterday with a huge smile on face. She is the third and final winner of the R10000 prize. The overall winner, who will walk away with R30000, will be announced next week – just in time for Christmas shopping. Weber could hardly contain her excitement yesterday. “It makes it worthwhile all the years of cutting out and entering [competitions],” she said, adding she had been entering the newspaper’s competitions since the 1950s. “My association with the Dispatch goes way back. In the 1950s, when I was a little girl, we used to belong to the LO club and my parents always had the paper delivered to our own home. “I think it is the right time of the year to receive such a present. It will be very useful,” she said. Weber said she was a cautious spender and would spend her money wisely. “There are a lot of expenses during the Christmas season. I am not a wild spender but I plan to spoil my grandchildren. I still want to talk to my husband and decide what we want to do with the rest of the money,” she said. Dispatch acting marketing manager Penelope Smith said: “We congratulate Diane on her cash prize. “This is a wonderful way for us to thank her for supporting the Dispatch for many years. “It’s great to see a loyal reader winning one of our competitions.” — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za Thandiwe Tokwe, 46, from Nompumelelo township is the second lucky winner of the Daily Dispatch Festive Shopping Spree competition this year. She walked away with a R10000 cash prize yesterday morning. Tokwe, who only entered the competition once, said she was overwhelmed with joy at the unexpected windfall. The lucky… December 6, 2017 Christmas has come early for Nompucuko Mfukuzo, the winner of the R30000 grand prize of the Daily Dispatch Festive Shopping Spree competition. Mfukuzo, 41, a receptionist at a Beacon Bay accounting firm, said she was over the moon after she received the life-changing phone call. “I’m in disbelief and excited… December 20, 2016 Mlondolozi Mjekula, whose name was pulled as the first winner in the Daily Dispatch Festive Shopping Spree draw, walked away with an early Christmas gift this week. Mjekula, a Transnet employee, said when he received the call on Tuesday notifying him that he had won R10 000, he was oblivious… November 30, 2017