A policeman, an alleged child rapist and two brothers were among eight men who were killed in separate incidents between Christmas Eve and Boxing Day in the former Transkei region of the Eastern Cape.  One of those who died was a 32-year-old man who was stabbed to death by the mother of a nine-year-old girl he was accused of having raped. The incident took place in Gwadalala village in EmaXesibeni (formerly Mount Ayliff) on Christmas Day. Police spokeswoman Captain Edith Mjoko said the mother of the child had left her and another child at her home while she went out to drink at a nearby tavern. “Upon returning home in the company of some people, the child told her she had been raped,” said Mjoko. “All the while, the suspect was still inside the house and hiding under the bed. A struggle ensued between him and the mother of the young child and he was stabbed to death.” The mother appeared in the Mount Ayliff Magistrate’s Court today and is out on warning. Meanwhile, a police reservist who was returning home to Tsolo from Gauteng was stabbed to death about 300m from his home. The deceased reportedly worked as reservist constable at the Thokoza Police Station. Two brothers were also killed in Mbizana by an angry mob after they allegedly stabbed to death another young man following a quarrel at a traditional initiation homecoming ceremony. An Eastern Cape woman has stabbed a man to death and wounded two others, allegedly when she found them gang-raping her 27-year-old daughter. The incident occurred at an unoccupied house in the Qumbu administrative area in Zwartwater near Komani at the weekend. The woman, who is from Lady Frere, was… September 6, 2017 A Gompo man allegedly told his ex-girlfriend’s daughter to undress so he could take her measurements for Christmas clothes before raping her in 2014. The 42-year-old man cannot be named to protect the identity of a victim of sexual assault. She was 12 years old at the time of the… February 9, 2016 Facebook is set to feature as a tool used to romance and then lure women to their death in a serial rape and murder trial in Qumbu. A 28-year-old man appeared in the Qumbu Magistrate’s Court yesterday where he faced four counts of rape, three counts of murder and three… November 7, 2017