Almost 40000 pupils who qualify for the scholar transport programme in the Eastern Cape might have to walk long distances to and from school next year if administrative bungles by school principals are not sorted out. The department of education said the details of 39000 pupils who needed transport, which needed to be supplied to the department, were incorrect and incomplete. As a result the pupils, most of who are from rural areas and walk up to 20km to and from school, are at risk of missing out on the government transport scholar programme. There have been ongoing problems with the programme, with parents and pupils protesting about the running of it. And now, even more pupils who qualify might miss out – causing more headaches for pupils, parents and government officials. Provincial education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima told the Daily Dispatch yesterday that it was the duty of the school principals to supply the pupils’ information to the department. Mtima said the provincial government would be unable to source additional funding from the national Treasury to transport the 39000 if pupils’ details were incorrect and incomplete. “Treasury does not fund a learner whose information is incorrect.” He said the principals of the schools the affected pupils are attending have since been informed about the problem and have one week to submit the correct information. The information needed includes the pupils’ names, correct identity numbers, the route they travel, their pick-up and drop-off points and the school’s EMIS (Education Management Information System) number. “Some of the learners’ ID numbers were incorrect, some did not have EMIS numbers and in other cases no route has been given. “There is also an issue with those who have graduated from primary to high school – their details have not been updated,” said Mtima. The department has urged principals to visit their nearest education district offices before next Wednesday to submit the necessary information. A pupil verification process that was conducted by the department between October and November, to establish how many pupils still needed transport, found that there were 54000 pupils who qualified for scholar transport but were not benefiting from the taxpayer-funded programme. Of that number, the information of only 15000 pupils was correct. This year 110000 pupils qualified for the programme. However, in her budget speech in March, transport MEC Weziwe Tikana stated at the time that the department could only ferry 77774 pupils with the R462-million budget she had been allocated. — arethal@dispatch.co.za Four Mdantsane schools have turned to the courts to force the Eastern Cape government to provide transport to and from school for every pupil who qualifies. The department recently indicated to the Daily Dispatch that it could only afford to provide scholar transport to 57000 of the 94000 pupils who… April 22, 2015 Taxpayers forked out more than R30-million to transport single pupils from 331 different pickup points in the Eastern Cape at a cost of R91500 a child. The worst case was for six pupils at a total of R1.9-million. The exorbitant claims in the scholar transport programme were exposed by Auditor-General Kimi… April 12, 2016 In just three years the budget for scholar transport has doubled to R432-million – but the number of pupils who benefit remains the same, the Grahamstown High Court heard yesterday. Four Eastern Cape schools, three based in Mdantsane, are asking the court to review and set aside the decision by… June 12, 2015