Bulelwa Ndudula, an East London woman accused of murdering her husband Sakhekile, will have to wait another five months for her trial because a judge was not allocated to hear her case this week. Sakhekile was the chief of staff in the office of social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi. Police have not yet recovered the murder weapon. The 45-year-old mother of two was expected to go on trial from yesterday until Friday in the East London High Court but now her case has been allocated the new trial date of May 21 to May 25. Her bail conditions were relaxed ahead of the festive season holidays. Ndudula appeared before Judge Templeton Mageza yesterday. In his address to the court, state prosecuting advocate Sakhumzi Mtsila told Mageza that both the state and defence were ready to proceed with the trial. “The case was last on the roll on October 16 and it was postponed to today for trial. “We are ready to proceed but it appears there is no presiding officer assigned to hear the matter today,” Mtsila said. He said he had also agreed with Ndudula’s counsel, advocate Mike Maseti, that her bail condition that she report at the Cambridge police station once a week could be relaxed for the festive season. “We have agreed that this be permitted until January 15. “After the 15th, the accused will go back to the initial condition of reporting at the police station once a week until the matter is finalised,” Mtsila said. Mageza granted the application and informed the gallery that the matter was being postponed so that a judge could be allocated to the case. The gallery was divided into two groupings – those supporting the widow and the family of her late husband. The primary school teacher stands accused of shooting her husband seven times in their Cambridge West home in September last year. Police suggested at her bail hearing last year that jealousy had been the motive. The court also heard there had been contradictory statements given by Ndudula on the morning of the murder. The state, during her bail application, presented startling testimony including that neighbours heard the couple arguing inside their Cambridge West house five minutes before the shots were heard. Primary gun residue was found on her right hand and evidence including clothing and the crime scene were interfered with, the state claims. — zwangam@dispatch.co.za The woman accused of fatally shooting her husband at their East London home last month will appear in court tomorrow for a formal bail application. Bulelwa Ndudula, 44, made a brief appearance in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday following her arrest on Saturday. She is accused of killing Sakhekile… October 4, 2016 The court case against an East London woman accused of shooting dead her husband last year has yet again been postponed in the East London Magistrate's Court. Bulelwa Ndudula was supposed to have been granted a date to appear in the East London High Court today but the court heard… March 24, 2017 Bulelwa Ndudula, the widow of murdered senior Bhisho official Sakhekile Ndudula, may have to fight for her career if the provincial education department decides to fill her teacher’s post. In her bail application in the East London Magistrate’s Court last week, Ndudula pleaded to be released as she feared losing her… October 13, 2016