To try and influence audit outcomes, some government ministers, premiers and MECs have threatened and intimidated staff at auditor-general Kimi Makwetu’s office. Makwetu has raised concerns that members of his team across the country – who scrutinise books to see how public finances are spent in government departments, municipalities and state-owned entities (SOEs) – are being intimidated for doing their job. In his latest report on the audit outcomes, Makwetu said there was a growing trend of government departments and SOEs that continued to unjustifiably contest his audit findings, a trend he said “intensified” in the 2016-17 financial year. He charged that some ministers, premiers and MECs were involved in dishing out “personal threats and intimidation tactics” towards some of his staff. He did not name any of the top politicians. Makwetu has revealed that there were delays in concluding some audits as a result of unjustified contestation of their findings by some state institutions. He has already reported this to the National Assembly, which has since condemned such behaviour. “It is acceptable for auditees to question and challenge the outcome of audits based on evidence and solid accounting interpretations or legal grounds. “We also acknowledge that many of the accounting and legal matters dealt with in the audits are complex and often open to interpretation. “But at some auditees, pressure is placed on audit teams to change conclusions purely to avoid negative audit outcomes or the disclosure of irregular expenditure, without any sufficient grounds,” said Makwetu. “There were also cases of personal threats and intimidation. Often ministers, MECs and premiers get involved. “However, the leadership should take accountability for poor audit outcomes and irregular expenditure and work on improvements, and not try to coerce the auditors into changing their conclusions,” warned Makwetu. His spokesman, Africa Boso, refused this week to provide more details on these incidents, saying their office had decided that the National Assembly’s standing committee on the auditor-general was to be the one commenting on the matter. Committee chairman and ANC MP Vincent Smith confirmed that the committee was aware of the cases. “The AG has already shared with us the specific examples and audit sites where these threats are prevalent,” Smith said. “As the committee that has been charged by parliament to, among other things, oversee and protect the reputation and functioning of the AG, we want to express our shock about these incidents.” He said the AG has a constitutional mandate to audit the accounts of the government without fear, favour or prejudice. — asandan@dispatch.co.za     The auditor-general‚ Kimi Makwetu‚ releasing national and provincial audit results‚ on Wednesday revealed that his office was under pressure to quash negative outcomes. Makwetu disclosed that the trend of contestation of his office’s audit findings continued and intensified in 2016-17‚ leading to the delay of some audits. “It is acceptable… November 1, 2017 THE Eastern Cape government is not happy with the audit outcomes of its 45 municipalities, cooperative government and traditional affairs MEC Fikile Xasa said yesterday. The municipalities performed dismally in the latest 2012-13 audit reports, with seven receiving disclaimer audit opinions. Auditor-General Kimi Makwetu yesterday released a combined report on… July 31, 2014 Chief financial officers at 17 Eastern Cape municipalities have a few months to acquire the right qualifications – or face the axe. Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Pravin Gordhan instructed his provincial counterpart MEC Fikile Xasa to ensure all conform by next July. The Daily Dispatch has learnt that… October 15, 2014