When the Hawks’ Narcotics Enforcement Bureau raided a suspected hydroponic cannabis clandestine laboratory in Brackenfell near Cape Town‚ they also found illegal firearms including over 2‚000 units of “various ammunition”.  The raid took place on Friday as part of ongoing Hawks’ crime-blitz festive season operations‚ they said in a statement. “The resultant search of the premises uncovered a clandestine laboratory with hydroponic cannabis plants‚ heads and oil as well as equipment‚ all valued at approximately R400‚000. “Further investigation exposed a safe with a collection of assorted firearms‚ including two handguns and five rifles hidden in the garage.” A man aged 48 was arrested and is expected to appear before the Kuilsriver Magistrate’s Court on Monday‚ December 18‚ to face charges related possession of illegal firearms and ammunition as well that of dealing in dagga. Western Cape Hawks boss Major General Nombuso Khoza was pleased that the weapons would be taken off the streets. “There is an old saying that excellence is not a destination‚ but a continuous journey that never ends. The Hawks in collaboration with all other law enforcement agencies will continue to focus in endeavours that enhances safety to the inhabitants. Curbing the misuse and criminal proliferation of firearms in this province remains a priority and it is a critical mission which we are prepared to take head-on‚” she said. TimesLIVE More than 20 suspected drug dealers were arrested and hundreds of thousands of rands worth of drugs confiscated in a series of widespread police raids at the weekend. The operations started on Friday and were expected to continue until today. By late yesterday police reports indicated that more than 20… January 25, 2016 While the use of dagga is illegal in South Africa‚ products containing the drug for medicinal purposes are starting to mushroom. But most of these are illegal‚ said the Medicines Control Council. The Department of Health is working to have dagga legally recognised as a prescription drug under controlled circumstances… December 5, 2016 Eastern Cape police believe they have made a breakthrough in their investigation into the robbery and theft of police-issued firearms at the Peddie police station. This follows the arrest of a suspect found in possession of three firearms believed to be some of the 30 guns stolen on March 14… April 1, 2017