By ZINE GEORGE and ZINGISA MVUMVU The ANC, since its 2012 conference, has been on the offensive, with its former allies in society looking for alternative allies. This was because the party was no longer seen as a beacon of hope. These were some of the observations made by outgoing ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe in his organisational report, which he presented to delegates attending the five-day national elective conference currently being held at Nasrec, Johannesburg. He has been replaced by Free state premier and chairman Ace Magashule. Mantashe said some activists and stalwarts, “including veterans of our movement”, had come together in different forums to denounce the ANC and its leadership. “This is unprecedented in the history of our movement. “This reality suggests that we are failing to grasp that society is beginning to look for an alternative that offers them an opportunity to be served,” he said. Under scrutiny is the five-year term President Jacob Zuma, ANC deputy SG Jessie Duarte and Mantashe were elected to serve in Mangaung back in December 2012. “For the better part of this term, although aware that we have been on the back foot, we opted for denial as a tactic to deal with our problems,” said Mantashe. “This has weakened our movement in the face of society, dented the image of the ANC and weakened the trust of the people in their liberation movement.” The former union leader said if he was not elected as national chairman, he would exchange his previous role as the ruling party’s chief operations officer for farming in his rural home in Cala. However, it is not to be – yet. The party has elected him to the position of national chairman for the next five years at least. This is the term when the party came “under siege” from the media and civil society following investigations conducted by the office of the public protector. These include the Nkandla scandal, the State Capture report and the recent Mandela memorial scandal, which revealed how millions of taxpayers’ rands earmarked for building schools and roads was used to buy party T-shirts, umbrellas, and takeaway meals for thousands of mourners during Nelson Mandela’s funeral in December 2013. “We are today faced with a painful challenge, where the entirety of the liberation movement is projected as corrupt. “State capture is a reality facing our society,” he said. Mantashe said it was far too often that revelations came to the fore – for instance, the Gupta e-mails, some of which were confirmed by those accused. Established brands like KPMG, Bell Pottinger, McKinsey, and more lately MultiChoice, had come under threat as a result of allegations of association with state capture. “Many in our movement are in denial that state capture is a reality facing our country. “There is a strong view that state capture is a narrative mainly developed by the media and beneficiaries of the apartheid state. “In which case, the state cannot be regarded as captured if not all of its three arms are not captured. “The debate is raging on, with society having strong views on the matter. “The ANC, therefore, cannot afford to be perceived as confused or defensive in the face of this debate. “This conference must provide concrete guidance to the leadership, not only on the position the ANC must take but also how it should engage this debate,” he said. Mantashe said the conference had presented the party “with an opportunity to lead rather than permanently being on the defensive”. “There is a reasonable expectation that we present a detailed account of all the challenges that confronted us, and provide genuine solutions that can improve our situation. This conference must be concrete about directing the leadership to take decisive and visible action on various fronts, internally and externally. “This conference is an opportunity to make a candid analysis of our reality or choose to deny it, which will lead to the demise of our mission to unite and transform South African society,” said Mantashe. He reminded the 4776 conference delegates that it was always a mistake of conferences to take resolutions based on what had happened in the past and then expect forward mobility. “The resolutions of this conference must be forward-looking and come up with possible solutions and guidance into the future,” he added. ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe has questioned the ruling party's response to the ongoing State Capture debate‚ saying if left unattended the graft allegations could destroy the party. Mantashe has also admitted that the fact that three members of the outgoing top six leadership ran for president of the party… December 18, 2017 By ZINE GEORGE and ZINGISA MVUMVU The ANC has no plans of becoming a rural party, outgoing ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told the media today.  "We don't want to be a rural party. We want to regain the lost ground," he said while addressing the media at Nasrec where the… December 18, 2017 THE ANC’s succession debate took a new twist yesterday with the party’s secretary general Gwede Mantashe intimating he might also be interested in the top job. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ysxj96L3-EA Mantashe was addressing hundreds of SA Communist Party supporters at the East London City Hall where he dismissed reports he was in the… January 20, 2017