Two people were killed and three others injured when their vehicle rolled at the Putfontein exit on the N12 on the East Rand in the early hours of Saturday‚ paramedics said. Injuries ranged from minor to moderate‚ said ER24 spokesperson Ineke van Huyssteen. “When ER24 paramedics arrived at the scene at 4.20am‚ they found two people inside the vehicle. Two others were found walking around on the scene. Upon further assessment‚ it was found that one of the patients in the vehicle had succumbed to his injuries and he was declared dead on the scene. Three patients were found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries. “Paramedics then found another man lying some metres away from the vehicle. Unfortunately‚ there was nothing paramedics could do for the man and he was declared dead on the scene‚” Van Huyssteen said. ER24‚ and another medical service on the scene‚ transported the patients to hospital for further medical care‚ she said. “The exact circumstances surrounding the incident were not yet known to our paramedics but local authorities were on the scene for further investigations.” Three people were killed and five others were injured when their station wagon rolled multiple times on the N3 close to the Reitz off ramp between Villiers and Warden in the Free State on Saturday afternoon. According to ER24 spokesperson Ineke van Huyssteen‚ injuries ranged from moderate to serious. “When… December 24, 2017 Three people were killed and at least 23 others injured in two separate taxi crashes in Johannesburg on Sunday. In Constantia Kloof on the West Rand‚ a taxi crashed off the Hendrik Potgieter bridge. Three people died and eight others sustained minor to serious injuries‚ said ER24 spokesperson‚ Ineke van… December 17, 2017 Four people were killed in a collision between an ambulance and another vehicle on Friday afternoon on the N17 at the Leandra Toll Plaza in Mpumalanga‚ paramedics said. Five people sustained moderate injuries in the accident “When ER24 paramedics arrived on the scene at approximately 16H35‚ they found six patients… November 18, 2017