Former  Fort Hare University student Lonwabo Solontsi, 28, yesterday pleaded guilty to 39 rapes over five years, several of which were perpetrated at the university. The serial rapist – a dapper, wellbuilt man – raped wherever he lived and his crimes were committed across three provinces, the Eastern and Western Cape and North West province. He committed the majority of his crimes in the Eastern Cape. His hunting grounds included the Alice campus of his alma mater, Bathurst, Dutywa, Willowvale and King William’s Town. His guilty plea confirms him as one of the country’s worst serial rapists. Solontsi pleaded guilty to a further 26 charges including robbery with aggravating circumstances, and housebreaking with intent to rob and rape. Judge Thami Beshe convicted Solontsi on all charges. More than a dozen of his victims sat in the public gallery listening to the litany of horror contained in Solontsi’s 35-page plea statement which was read out by his senior legal aid lawyer Helen McCallum. Solontsi listened with intense interest while the details of his horror crimes were read out over about two hours in the Grahamstown High Court. A hoarse Mcallum who paused to sip water, repeated the phrase “without her consent and against her will” 39 times while reading out his statement. Solontsi admitted he raped so many women that he could not recall the exact details in at least 11 of the cases. In each one of these, even though his recall on exact details was vague, he admitted that the complainant was telling the truth. He was linked to all the cases via DNA evidence. In several of the cases, he told the women to count to 100 before covering their faces with an item of clothing and fleeing. In his plea statement, Solontsi admitted every terrible aspect of all 67 chilling crimes against dozens of women, teenagers and children aged 11 to 46. His rape spree kicked off in Alice in 2010 when he himself was a student there. He terrorised the Alice campus students where he is alleged to have raped at least six students over three years. He also robbed most of the women he raped. In about 10 of the 39 incidents, he is alleged to have either raped women and teenagers multiple times or raped more than one woman in a house that he had broken into. He raped a child in her own home and teenagers on their way to and from school. Victims were forced into the bushes, humiliated, threatened, assaulted and raped, sometimes in broad daylight. He admitted to raping two women in two different incidents in Bathurst on the same day. Senior State Advocate Nickie Turner has indicated that the state will seek the mandatory minimum sentence of life imprisonment in at least 11 of the charges. Sergeant Sizwe Gaika, the policeman central to piecing together the puzzle that led to the arrest of serial rapist Lonwabo Solontsi, cannot wait for the predator to be jailed. He says it is one of the worst of many terrible cases he has dealt with. The national crime DNA profile… December 16, 2017 Victims of serial rapist Lonwabo Solontsi, 28, who this week pleaded guilty to 39 rapes, today testified how the rapes destroyed their relationships, caused unwanted pregnancies, night terrors, depression, terrifying flashbacks and fear of people. Solontsi was this week convicted in the Grahamstown High Court of all 39 rapes and… December 15, 2017 Serial predator Lonwabo Solontsi this week re-traumatised some of his victims by smirking at them and gesturing to them in court that he could see them, one of the women indicated in court yesterday. Several of the women gave evidence yesterday about how the rapist destroyed their intimate relationships with… December 16, 2017