A joint operation between the Hawks’ Serious Corruption Unit and Road Traffic Management Corporation’s National. 
Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit culminated in the arrest of 10 traffic officers in the Tzaneen area in Limpopo on Wednesday. The RTMC said the arrests came after an intensive investigation by both corruption-busting units under the project code-named Siyabangena that was initiated in April this year. “The suspects were observed over a period of time where they were seen taking bribes from motorists who have been stopped on the road for contravening road traffic regulations‚” the RTMC said in a statement. It said the suspects were expected to appear soon before their local magistrates’ courts. “Meanwhile‚ two people — who were missed when six suspects were arrested yesterday at the Nkowankowa driving licence centre‚ handed themselves over to the police today. “This brings the total number of people arrested for alleged corruption in Tzaneen area to 16‚” the RTMC said. “Investigations are continuing and more people will be arrested around the province‚” it added. An ongoing joint operation between the Hawks’ Serious Corruption Unit and Road Traffic Management Corporation’s National Traffic Anti-Corruption Unit in Limpopo has netted a total of 17 traffic officers in the Tzaneen area. The Hawks said the operation has been planned since April‚ with arrests taking place from Tuesday this… December 14, 2017 A total of 3078 motorists have been arrested on South African roads in the first 16 days of the festive period for drunken driving‚ speeding‚ reckless and negligent driving‚ and the possession of false documents‚ the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) announced on Monday. The highest number of arrests for… December 19, 2016 The Hawks arrested three senior traffic officers, all three of them senior superintendents in Peddie, yesterday on suspicion of fraud. They are accused of taking bribes from motorists. The three senior officers, who work at the Ngqushwa municipality’s traffic department, appeared in the Peddie Magistrate’s Court soon after their arrests.… December 22, 2016