Residents in and around Mthatha are still reeling with shock following gruesome killings of three people in separate incidents over the weekend.  In a first incident, a taxi driver was shot nine times and died while parking outside a block of flats at Lujecweni village on Saturday. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the 34-year-old taxi driver was attached to the Border Alliance Taxi Association. Fatyela said the incident took place at 8.30pm. The suspect is still at large. Fatyela said nine spent cartridges were found next to the body of the deceased.   The incident happened hours before a 24-year-old rape suspect from Slovo Park was killed by an angry mob at Mandela Park. In an equally shocking incident, a 52-year-old woman was raped, killed and her house torched while she was inside by an unknown suspect. The incident took place at Qhokoma villshr in Ngqeleni on Sunday evening. In a separate incident, a 24-year-old man was killed by an angry mob for allegedly attempting to rape a 50-year-old woman. According to Fatyela, the incident took place at Mandela Park on Saturday. Fatyela said the man was chased down by an angry mob after he had allegedly invaded the home of the woman at 1.30am on Sunday. Fatyela urged anyone with information that may lead to an arrest to contact the police. The suspect is still at large.     Mthatha police have urged hosts of traditional ceremonies to end festivities by 6pm after three murders over the weekend. Two of the killings took place in Ngqeleni and one in Mthatha. A woman of 52 may have been raped before she was killed and her house torched. She was still… December 19, 2017 MORE than 100 people were arrested during a three-day crime blitz in Mthatha and Ngcobo. Mthatha police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said about 115 people were arrested and charged during police operations carried out in and around Mthatha between Friday and Sunday. Some were driving drunk and others were wanted… December 27, 2013 A 37-year-old man was gunned down in cold blood by unknown gunmen in Mthatha on Sunday. The victim, who was reportedly inside his BMW X5 with his girlfriend at the time, was among at least three people shot and killed in separate incidents in Transkei over the weekend. The shootings… May 13, 2014