By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI and ZIKHONA MOYIKWA Yet another taxi driver was gunned down in East London on Thursday night. Vumile Fitsha of Village 7 in Ncerha was shot six times by an unknown man who had boarded the taxi he was driving.  Fitsha was a member of the Mdantsane East London Taxi Association (Meta), a Border Alliance Taxi Association affiliate. Meta chairman Michael Mphunga condemned the latest killing believed to be part of the ongoing taxi violence. “We do not want anymore bloodshed. I wish this could end now because people are now living in fear. We want peace,” he said yesterday. Fitsha’s killing comes as the Eastern Cape Police Organised Crime Unit was hauled before the national police top brass in Pretoria last week to explain the taxi killings in the ongoing taxi war in the province which has claimed more than 30 lives since 2015. Five taxi bosses have been gunned down in the past three weeks while 10 were killed since the beginning of this year in BCM. Hawks provincial spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni confirmed yesterday that no arrests had been made by the Hawks in connection with the two cases they are investigating. These are the murder cases of Xolani Michael Mapuma and Saziso Joka. In September the Hawks offered a R100 000 reward for information with the murder of Maphuma. Maphuma was gunned down on March 19 last year at about 5pm in Mdantsane Highway Taxi City in front of horrified onlookers and passengers. Eastern Cape police who asked for a week to prepare a response, failed to comment at the time of writing yesterday. A well known East London taxi boss was shot dead at the Mdantsane Highway taxi rank in NU2 last night. A second taxi owner was rushed to an undisclosed hospital with bullet wounds after two unknown gunmen opened fire on the two shortly after 5pm. The men had been sitting… June 22, 2017 Another Eastern Cape taxi operator has been gunned down in cold blood outside his own home. Xolile Baliso, 44, was shot and left for dead as he arrived at his Mdantsane home from an out-of-town trip. Baliso is the first operator to be killed in 2017 in a raging taxi war… January 6, 2017 A second East London taxi operator has been shot dead as rumours of a hit-list said to contain the names of Mdantsane East London Taxi Association (Meta) members mount. The 42-year-old taxi operator was gunned down on Saturday evening at his home in NU10, Mdantsane, police confirmed yesterday. The man,… January 16, 2017