Northern Cape police have arrested a man in possession of over 80 bank cards‚ 143 South African identity documents and 37 Sassa pension cards. The man’s arrest in Prieska on Monday was a joint effort involving members of the Kimberley public order police and De Aar Crime Intelligence unit. Police spokesman Brigadier Mohale Ramatseba said the suspect is expected to appear at the Prieska Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday for money laundering‚ possession of a gas gun and ammunition. “The suspect was also found in possession of two SA identity application papers‚ 15 account cards from different retail shops‚ 19 rounds of ammunition‚ camouflage army trousers‚ 32 FNB cards‚ 39 Standard Bank cards‚ 4 Capitec Bank cards and 6 Post Office Bank cards‚” said Ramatseba. The team also nabbed another suspect in Prieska on Monday for money laundering and fraud. The suspect was found in possession of Sassa pension cards and different bank cards. Police said he was also found in possession of R10‚200. Ramatseba said both cases are under investigation and it’s suspected that both men might be linked to cases of fraud. “The Cluster Commander of Pixley Ka Seme‚ Brigadier Sofika‚ commends the good work rendered by members. The community of Prieka will breathe a sigh of relief‚” he said. Two more suspects were arrested during the operation for drug dealing. They are also expected to appear at Prieska Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. Here are the five most wanted, feared and ferocious men in the Eastern Cape. They are on the run from the law, but when caught will be charged with rape, murder and armed robbery. Yesterday, Eastern Cape police appealed to the public to help bring these dangerous men in and,… October 18, 2017 An early hours swoop on ATMs led to the confiscation of thousands of South African Social Security Agency cards and the arrest of 11 alleged “predatory lenders”. The operation‚ in Nigel‚ south of Johannesburg‚ took place on Tuesday just after social welfare grant recipients’ monthly payments had been transferred to… August 2, 2017 POLICE in Transkei believe they have made a major breakthrough into an identity document fraud scam after arresting seven suspects. They were found with more than 200 government documents including ID books, matric certificates, birth certificates, social grant smart cards and bank debit cards . Those arrested appeared in the… March 12, 2013