Buffalo City Metro’s beaches are ready for their festive season holiday makers. This was said by a representative of the national Department of Environmental Affairs yesterday. The department was in East London to ensure that the local beaches were spruced up and ready for visitors. Environmental protection and infrastructure programme manager Nangamso Dyantyi said beach lovers had a responsibility to keep the beaches in the spotless condition they will find them in. The department, through its Working for the Coast project, has been upgrading and maintaining beach facilities and developing infrastructure in 15 municipalities. “This year we’ve had a particular focus on reducing litter and keeping East London beaches clean and beautiful throughout the festive season,” Dyantyi said. The department has been working with the expanded public works programme. Yesterday, the department visited Eastern Beach, Nahoon Beach and estuary reserve Chintsa, as well as the blue-flag status beach at Hamburg. Dyantyi said beach cleaners would begin work at 6am every day to ready the beaches before daily activities begin, and more lifeguards will be deployed. Eastern beach worker Victoria Myekeni said: “People need to learn the importance of cleaning up after themselves when they’re on the beach this festive season.” — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za Buffalo City Metro has reinforced its workforce to ensure the city is ready to accommodate bumper festive season crowds. The city has employed 36 additional lifeguards and 770 beach marshalls, who will offer security assistance, as well as 40 cleaners to be deployed around the beaches. Over and above this… December 8, 2017 A massive influx of people onto beaches in Buffalo City Metro and Port St Johns on the Wild Coast has prompted municipal officials from both areas to intensify safety plans for New Year’s Day. Extra precautions such as deploying more lifeguards and extending their working hours have been put in place… December 30, 2014 With the festive season and its hordes of tourists approaching, Buffalo City Municipality has gone into overdrive getting its beaches summer ready. A Daily Dispatch visit to Gonubie, Nahoon and Eastern beaches on Thursday found workers busying themselves in many areas, and a return visit yesterday showed much had been… December 2, 2017