Police in North West have launched a manhunt for four suspects who shot dead an employee during a robbery at a filling station in Mmabatho in the early hours of Tuesday. Police said the unknown suspects had entered the filling station’s convenience shop at about 4.30am and demanded money and cell phones from the employees. “The suspects allegedly used explosives to blow [open] the safe and took an undisclosed amount of cash. Upon leaving the shop after taking the money‚ the suspects allegedly shot a 34-year-old employee who died on the scene. “The suspects fled the scene with a vehicle. The latter was spotted by the police who were alerted about the incident while on patrol. The suspects‚ upon realising that the police were after them‚ abandoned the vehicle‚ fled on foot and evaded arrest‚” police said.
They added that they had managed to recover the money stolen during the robbery. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the vehicle that the suspects utilised was reported stolen at Letlhabile‚ near Brits in August 2017. “Investigation into the matter continues and no one has been arrested.” Limpopo police have launched a manhunt for a gang of 20 armed robbers who raided a shopping centre‚ blew up a safe and shot at police. The group‚ according to the police‚ stormed a retail shop in Modjadji Plaza in Ga-Kgapane Township‚ outside Tzaneen‚ in the early hours of Tuesday… November 29, 2017 By LULAMILE FENI and ZWANGA MUKHUTHU FEAR is spiking in the normally quiet rural town of Lusikisiki following a spate of robberies in the past few days, causing residents and business owners to panic. Police have described Lusikisiki as a “war zone” after robbers accounted for three lives including that… July 15, 2016 Bullets flew at a popular Port Alfred shopping mall yesterday afternoon when four men robbed security guards of an undisclosed sum of money before fleeing on foot into nearby bushes. Police spokesman Lieutenant Luvuyo Mjekula said a 34-year-old man had been arrested after an intensive police search and that the… May 7, 2015