East London father who shot dead his girlfriend and two children before turning the gun on himself twice last year, was this week sentenced to 56 years imprisonment. The sentence was handed down in the East London Regional Court by magistrate Deon Rossouw. Fezile Majacu, 37, however will only serve 30 years imprisonment after Rossouw ordered that four of the five sentences run concurrently. He sentenced Mjacu to 15 years imprisonment for the murder of his 30-year-old girlfriend and mother of two, Sungulwa Four. Rossouw ordered that soon after Mjacu completes this sentence in prison he must serve another 15 years imprisonment for killing his 14-year-old son, Awonke Four, and another 15 years imprisonment for killing his 13-year-old daughter, Azipheli Four. The two sentences will run concurrently. Rossouw further sentenced Mjacu to eight years imprisonment for possession of an unlicensed firearm and an additional three years for possession of ammunition. The motive for the shootings was not known as Mjacu did not go on trial. He entered a guilty plea with the state for a lenient sentence. In his plea he told the court that he had shot dead his girlfriend, on the morning of July 27 2016 after a vicious scuffle. He said he then shot himself in the head. The incident occurred in Duncan Village. He woke up covered in blood and found himself still in possession of the semi-automatic firearm. He said he then went to the kitchen, where he poured himself a cup of water before walking to where his son Awonke, and daughter, Azipheli were sleeping. He said he shot each child in the head before turning the gun on himself again. He survived. He was charged with three counts of murder, one count of illegal possession of a firearm and another of illegal possession of ammunition.   An East London father, who shot dead his girlfriend and two children before turning the gun on himself twice last year, was this week sentenced to 56 years’ imprisonment. The sentence was handed down in the East London Regional Court by magistrate Deon Rossouw. Fezile Mjacu, 37, will however serve… December 9, 2017 An East London father who shot dead his girlfriend and two children before turning the gun on himself twice last year, pleaded guilty to all charges in the East London Regional Court. Fezile Mjacu, 37, told Regional Court 1 magistrate Deon Rossouw on Friday that he had shot dead his… July 17, 2017 Sentencing of an East London father who shot dead his girlfriend and two children before turning the gun on himself last year was delayed in the East London Regional Court yesterday. Fezile Mjacu, 37, was supposed to have been sentenced yesterday for the July 27 2016 murders of his 30-year-old… August 25, 2017