Controversial Pastor Patseka Mboro Motsoeneng will appear in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court next year on charges of common assault. Ekurhuleni West police spokesman Captain Lesetja Mathobela said a paramedic‚ who responded to a call to help a dying child at Mboro’s Incredible Happenings Ministry church in Katlehong‚ laid the charges against Mboro. The three-year died on Sunday after a mother had turned to the church for healing prayers. On Wednesday‚ Mboro laid charges of culpable homicide against the paramedics‚ who he claimed took too long to arrive and “killed an innocent child”. Mathobela said the case cannot be placed on the court roll until statements are taken from Mboro‚ the paramedics and witnesses. The case is now set to be heard within 14 days of the police investigation being complete. He added that Mboro’s lawyers were at the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Mathobela said the paramedic’s evidence consisted of a J88 form. This is a legal document in which a doctor records injuries from an assault. Mathobela did not know whether there was any footage from the scene. Nontombi Gwam‚ the mother of the deceased child‚ said she had turned to the church after nurses at the Daveyton clinic turned her away on Saturday‚ claiming they didn’t have drips for the child who had diarrhoea. The mother said in her statement that she did not go to the hospital because she did not get a referral letter from the clinic’s nurses. Hospitals often demand letters to prevent people bypassing the clinics for treatment. Gwam’s statement explained that after she received no medical help from the state on Saturday‚ she “decided to go to the church to seek help as I did not have any letter of referral”. Mboro and his followers allegedly got into a fight with paramedics after the ambulance took too long to arrive and paramedics allegedly refused to enter the church to fetch the child. Acting Gauteng Premier Gwen Ramakgopa is paying the Gwam family and the Daveyton clinic a visit on Thursday morning. Baby Latoya‚ who died at Pastor Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng’s church in Katlehong on Christmas Eve‚ suffered a lot before she died. According to Mboro‚ Latoya’s mother had looked for medical assistance for her child but had not received any help until she turned to him for help. “On Sunday‚ a… December 27, 2017 The Commission for the Promotion and Protection of Cultural‚ Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL) announced on Tuesday that it has laid charges against Prophet Paseka Motsoeneng‚ popularly known as Mboro. Commission chairwoman Thoko Xaluva-Mkhwanazi said on Tuesday that they had opened criminal charges at Hillbrow police station. The charges‚ she… April 12, 2016 Controversial religious leader Paseka Motsoeneng‚ popularly known as Pastor Mboro‚ has come under the spotlight yet again after it emerged that he has opened two cases of fraud against Malawian Pastor Shephered Bushiri. Speaking to Tiso Black Star Group Entertainment on Friday morning SAPS provincial spokesman Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed… April 29, 2016