Eskom acting CEO Matshela Koko has been found not guilty on all charges in a disciplinary hearing. Chairman of the hearing Advocate Mzungulu Mthombeni has ordered his reinstatement. Koko had claimed the accusations against him started surfacing when he dealt with corruption on becoming interim CEO. He faced six charges‚ including allegedly failing to declare a conflict of interest owing to his stepdaughter owning shares in a company awarded a tender by a division he led. Last week‚ Koko in his closing submissions said Eskom had failed to bring any substantial evidence to support the charges. Koko relied heavily on two documents‚ one a memo he drafted and presented to former CEO Brian Molefe and another‚ an e-form he printed out and handed to former board chairman Dr Ben Ngubane. In the latter‚ he detailed the issues surrounding the possible conflict of interest arising from his stepdaughter Koketso Choma’s directorship and shareholding in Impulse International. In March this year‚ the Sunday Times revealed that Impulse was awarded a string of contracts worth nearly R1 billion while Koko was acting CEO. But Koko submitted that Eskom could produce no evidence at the hearing or during forensic investigations that he had any influence over the awarding of the contracts. Koko was charged with‚ among other alleged offences‚ failing to appropriately declare the potential conflict of interest. His hearings have been described by analysts as a farce‚ with some key witnesses declining to give evidence. – Additional reporting by Kyle Cowan TimesLIVE Suspended acting Eskom CEO Matshela Koko has pleaded not guilty to six charges levelled against him by his employer in relation to his failure to declare a conflict of interest‚ saying he had written to and discussed the situation with former Eskom chairman Ben Ngubane. Koko was suspended based on… October 18, 2017 State-owned power utility Eskom has failed to bring any substantial evidence to support charges against its suspended acting chief executive and former head of generation‚ Matshela Koko. This is according to Koko’s own closing submissions filed to the chairman of the hearing on Monday‚ in which he reiterates his not… December 11, 2017 Suspended acting Eskom CEO Matshela Koko has been accused of failing to follow proper internal declaration procedures to alert Eskom to a conflict of interest which has resulted in him facing disciplinary procedures. However Koko has hit back‚ saying he told Brian Molefe‚ who was CEO before him‚ about the… November 26, 2017