A motorist was forced out of his vehicle, shot 11 times and left to die on the road yesterday. The slaying took place shortly before 5pm on the N6 10km outside East London.East London police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala said: “The body of a 31-year-old male was found lying on the N6 road near Ducats North. “Around the body empty cartridges and projectiles.”    The man’s NP 200 Nissan bakkie carrying boxes marked with a cellphone network’s logos was still parked on the roadside when the Dispatch arrived yesterday. “It is still locked. The motive for the shooting is not known at present,” Mqala said. “A murder case has been opened and investigation is continuing. Anyone with information can contact Beacon Bay police station and the information will be kept confidential.”   A shocked crowd had gathered, watching in horror as the body lay on the tar. Resident Sebenzile Mfula said: “I was having a nap and heard sirens coming from the road. I came to check and saw this. I am shocked, really.” Mamsomi Landu said after hearing the sirens, she thought that one of the children who like to pick wild berries on the other side of the N6 had been hit by a speeding vehicle. “I have high blood pressure, and it shot up. I was so worried because these kids are naughty.”   ● East London police are looking for three men in connection with a robbery at a Fleet Street hardware store. The thugs fled with more than R6 000 from the till after repeatedly hitting Masakhane Hardware manager Anish Kumar, 38, on the head with a pistol. Kumar said they hit him after he told them there was no more money left. “They kept shouting for more money but I told them there was nothing left, so they hit me. My wife cried and offered them our two cellphones.”   Employee Mongezi Nzingwa said the trio walked in quietly and casually. “They didn’t fire shots or injure anyone.” He said the robbery was over less than two minutes. WO Mqala said police were looking for three men, one with a gun.  A motorist was shot 11 times and died on the N6 near Ducats 10km from East London. An eyewitness said the man, who was driving a Nissan NP 200 bakkie carrying boxes stamped with Vodacom logos was forced out of the vehicle, was  shot and left to bleed to death… December 14, 2017 Authorities urge motorists to drive carefully AN EAST London cyclist was killed yesterday when he was involved in a collision with a truck on the N6 near Ducats township outside Beacon Bay. The cyclist – identified as Rob Burton, 60 – was on a training ride with a friend when… May 22, 2013 A MOTORIST was killed when his vehicle veered off the N6 and landed in a village pond yesterday. Traffic officers on the scene suspect the man, believed to be in his early 30s, was speeding. He was travelling the direction of Stutterheim from East London when his car left the… December 13, 2013