By MAMELA GOWA and ADRIENNE CARLISLE Two top vacant positions in the Buffalo City Metro have finally been filled by the city council this week. Noludwe Ncokazi has been appointed head of economic development and agencies while Vuyani Lwana was appointed head of health, public safety and emergency services. Both appointments will take effect from January subject to the approval of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs MEC Fikile Xasa, executive mayor Xola Pakati told the Saturday Dispatch. Last year Xasa rejected the flawed appointments of Ncokazi and Lwana for the same positions, together with the appointments of Sandile Booi as head of human settlements in the metro and Neo Moerane as head of municipal services. Xasa last year rejected Ncokazi citing that she did not meet the requirements in terms of National Treasury regulations. The appointment of Lwana as head of health and public safety and Moerane as head of municipal services were also rejected, as Xasa cited that recruitment processes “must be complied with” and the posts should be re-advertised. Moerane, the former Social Development MEC, took the metro to court over her rejected appointment. This week the Grahamstown High Court dismissed her bid to force the BCM to heed a February 2016 council resolution that she be appointed as head of the municipal services directorate. Not only was Moerane’s application dismissed, but BCM’s counter application to review and set aside the council resolution succeeded. Judge Murray Lowe ruled the resolution was null and void for two reasons. Moerane had failed a competency test, which was a prerequisite for the appointment. This alone rendered the decision to appoint her unenforceable. But Lowe found that the composition of the selection panel itself was also irregular. It had not met the regulatory requirement that there be at least one person who was not a BCM councillor or staff member on the panel. He ordered Moerane to pay all legal costs incurred by BCM. Pakati said the outstanding appointments for heads for human settlements and municipal services would be made in the January council meeting. In his top-secret report tabled before council, a copy of which was seen by Saturday Dispatch, city manager Andile Sihlahla said Ncokazi and Lwana scored the highest of the candidates shortlisted for the posts. “The panel agreed unanimously that Ms N Ncokazi met the requirements and the required competencies for the post and the panel has recommended that Ms Ncokazi be appointed to the post of HoD: economic development and agencies,” Sihlahla said. A state security check showed that Ncokazi had a business interest. Sihlahla said in his report that her appointment will be subject to resigning ownership and not having any further interest in this business. The two successful candidates are yet to meet with the remuneration committee to finalise their salaries. It is hoped that the appointments will bring stability to the troubled departments and service delivery to the residents. — mamelag@dispatch.co.za Buffalo City mayor Xola Pakati will table a detailed plan at next Thursday’s council meeting to fill all vacant director positions, including that of municipal manager. He announced yesterday that positions to be filled include those of directors for municipal services, housing and economic development, as well as health and public… January 20, 2017 The contracts of three Buffalo City Metro acting directors have been terminated, effectively from the end of this month. Executive mayor Xola Pakati told the Daily Dispatch that the terminations were part of ensuring that everything was done by the book when the metro recruited qualifying incumbents for four vacant… December 23, 2016 A cold war is brewing between the province and the city over the appointment of four municipal directors. Buffalo City Metro council endorsed the four crucial appointments earlier last month of Neo Moerane as director of municipal services; Noludwe Ncokazi as head of economic development and agencies; Vuyani Lwana as health… April 8, 2016