Robbie Malinga’s brother confirmed on Wednesday that the music veteran was diagnosed with stage four pancreatic cancer in June this year‚ leading to several spells in and out of hospital.  Speaking at a press conference near Robbie’s home in Johannesburg‚  Bheki Malinga said that his brother battled to walk and eat in the days leading up to his death‚ and often spoke in a low voice. Still‚ he would reassure family members that he was okay. The family said that as much as they knew death was coming after the cancer diagnosis‚ his death on Christmas day was still a shock. “We are devastated but we have to be strong for (Robbie’s wife) Anne and the kids‚” Anne’s sister said. The star invited close friends and family over to his house only hours before his death. He asked his brother to turn him around as everyone arrived and ate‚ before taking his last breath. Robbie and his wife went on holiday to the Maldives in November‚ after which his health deteoriated. Robbie had spent much of 2017 in and out of hospital. Speaking to Sowetan last month about his health struggles‚ Robbie said it had left him concerned about his family’s future. “I was scared for my kids‚ man. My kids are so spoilt; I make sure that I do everything for them. My wife as well‚ she’s still young to have her husband die…my fans. It was scary but I am a strong person‚ I am a believer‚” he said. A memorial service for Robbie will be held on Friday at Grace Bible Church from  12 noon till 4pm. His funeral will be held on Tuesday at Rhema at 8am. TshisaLIVE can confirm veteran musician Robbie Malinga has died. https://youtu.be/eoA1yVJ3GuI Details around his death are unclear at this stage‚ but his label manager Kenny Tlale confirmed that he had spoken to Malinga's wife. "I just got confirmation that he died this afternoon. However we still need to get the finer… December 25, 2017 Veteran musician and producer Robbie Malinga is expected to be discharged from hospital this week after a battle with anemia saw him booked for bed rest and treatment. Speaking to TshisaLIVE‚ Robbie’s record label and management Universal Music confirmed that the star had recently been booked into hospital to treat… June 6, 2017 Despite his health suffering greatly after being diagnosed with anaemia over a year ago‚ Robbie Malinga's family and friends have been left shocked by his death‚ insisting that even though he spent much of 2017 in and out of hospital he was getting better. https://youtu.be/eoA1yVJ3GuI Family friend and Universal Music… December 26, 2017