By TEMBILE SGQOLANA and BONGANI FUZILE A Furore has broken out over the railroading of a man at the centre of a R630-million tender scandal into the municipal manager post at Enoch Mgijima municipality.  The Enoch Mgijima council was in uproar on Wednesday night when the ANC used its majority to appoint Chris Magwangqana, the former manager at Amathole district municipality (ADM). The Siyenza scandal saw very few of the 66 000 toilets meant for rural Eastern Cape people being built, while millions of rands allegedly found their way into the hands of ANC figures and family members. The Dispatch has seen a report by forensic auditing firm SizweNtsalubaGobodo which recommends: “Criminal and disciplinary action be considered against [ADM] municipal manager Chris Magwangqana.” The report states: “The Hawks provincial task team for the Eastern Cape has been requested by the National Treasury to conduct a further criminal investigation based on the findings.” Magwangqana, speaking to the Dispatch, denied he was being investigated “as a person”. “The auditors are investigating the project as a whole. “I don’t see the need to disclose anything as there is nothing to disclose. I was only asked by the national Treasury department to explain what resulted in the scandal, and I did,” Magwangqana said. Enoch Mgijima council speaker Mzoxolo Peter said in an interview: “In the process of [police] verification there was nothing that talked about criminal charges. “Magwangqana was proven to be the best candidate. We believe someone is innocent until proven guilty.” The 11-hour council meeting saw the Magwangqana item shifting three times on the agenda. Opposition councillors furiously objected to item No 89 being on the agenda at all. The item started out on “highly confidential” pink paper but by 8pm, Mayor Lindiwe Gunuza-Nkwentsha had to call the municipality’s “strategic executive officer” Donovan van Wyk at his home to come to the Komani City Hall and move the item to become an “addendum” on yellow paper, which meant it would be discussed openly. Minutes after Van Wyk departed, he was called back to change the item’s numbering from 89 to 112, after opposition councillors objected that item 89 had already been discussed. Mayor Lindiwe Gunuza-Nkwentsha argued for hiring Magwangqana, and Peter announced that he had been appointed as municipal manager. The EFF, DA, UDM and United Front announced they were taking the appointment to court. Magwangqana’s role in approving the Siyenza scandal without following regular supply chain processes was exposed in an investigation by the Daily Dispatch.     Eastern Cape cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Fikile Xasa will decide by tomorrow whether or not to forge ahead with placing three municipalities under administration. Xasa has written to Enoch Mgijima, Makana and Mnquma local municipalities asking them to give reasons why they should not be put under section… November 28, 2017 The Amathole district municipality (ADM) is expected to finally move to new headquarters in Stutterheim. Council has instructed municipal manager Chris Magwangqana to approach National Treasury for funds to finalise the move, which is expected to happen soon. It is about four years since Buffalo City municipality was granted metro… August 26, 2015 Siyenza Group, the politically-connected “company” that was awarded a R631-million contract to build thousands of toilets for villages of a rural Eastern Cape municipality, does not exist officially. A Dispatch investigation into the awarding of the tender by the Amathole District Municipality, has found that Siyenza Group does not have… March 14, 2015