An unlicensed driver who caused the deaths of two children, including a member of the Hoërskool Grens cricket first team, was sentenced to four years’ imprisonment in the East London Magistrate’s Court this week. This was despite Themba Kundulu, 38, pleading not guilty to two counts of culpable homicide, reckless and negligent driving, driving under the influence and driving without a licence. For the purpose of sentencing, magistrate Annamarie Elliot took the charges as one. The crash between the school’s minibus and a Ford Laser hatchback, driven by Kundulu, occurred on the afternoon of October 16 last year on the corner of the R72 and R347. The school bus, transporting the cricket team, was returning from a tournament in Uitenhage at the time. Grade 9 Grens pupil Clinton Bosman and four-year-old Onisa Veletshona, who was travelling in Kundulu’s car, died at the scene. The accused has been in prison since his arrest last year, after the state feared he would evade trial as his physical address was not known. The state called two witnesses: Warrant Officer Bruce Taylor of the East London SAPS Collisions Unit, who visited the accident scene, and eye-witness Giselle Gill. Taylor testified in the trial that the vehicle Kundulu was driving was certified to carry five people including the driver, but was carrying 10 people and two piglets. Gill said she was following at a safe distance behind the minibus when she saw a Ford Laser ahead take the King William’s Town turnoff without stopping or indicating. The driver of the minibus veered off the road to avoid colliding with the Ford, but collided with it before hitting a tree. Kundulu was represented by Legal Aid, who indicated to the court that they would not be appealing the sentence. — zwangam@dispatch.co.za An unlicensed driver who allegedly caused the death of two people, including a member of the Grens Hoërskool cricket first team, pleaded not guilty in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday. The smash between the school’s minibus and a Ford Laser hatchback driven by Themba Kundulu, 38, occurred on the… November 8, 2017 The driver of the Ford Lazer who allegedly crashed into the Grens Hoërskool bus, claiming the lives of two children, appeared in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday. Themba Khundulu was arrested on Sunday at the scene of the horrific accident. It is alleged he was under the influence of… October 22, 2016 Messages of support continued to pour in yesterday for Grens Hoërskool following the death of Grade 9 pupil Clinton Bosman in a horrific accident between a school minibus and a car on the R72 on Sunday. The school bus, transporting members of the school’s first cricket team, was returning from… October 18, 2016