Standard Bank today announced the appointment of Lungisa Fuzile as its Chief Executive. The post is with effect from 15 January 2018. Fuzile takes over from Sim Tshabalala who has served as Chief Executive of Standard Bank SA from June 2008. The group said in a statement: “This appointment follows the recent changes to the Group’s executive structure‚ which resulted in the disbanding of the joint group chief executive construct. The leadership of SBSA was a component of Sim’s responsibilities when he served as the joint-group chief executive. This appointment removes the dual role for Sim‚ which had become both unsustainable and inappropriate. “Lungisa Fuzile will be accountable to the board of SBSA‚ with a matrix reporting line to the Group Chief
Executive‚ Sim Tshabalala.” Fuzile had a 20-year career in public service‚ culminating in his role as Director-General at the National Treasury from May 2011. He resigned from the post in May 2017‚ a year before his contract was due to end. TimesLIVE Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba extended his gratitude to Lungisa Fuzile‚ the outgoing director general of the National Treasury‚ who completed his last day of his notice period on Monday. A statement from Gigaba’s office thanked Fuzile for his service and for the “successful and smooth handover” to the new finance… May 15, 2017 The Public Investment Corporation (PIC) would make developmental investments worth R70-billion in the next three to five years‚ which would drive economic growth and job creation‚ Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas said in parliament on Wednesday. Jonas said sectors of focus would be agriculture and agro-processing‚ mining and beneficiation‚ manufacturing‚… May 6, 2016 Standard Bank has filed an explosive affidavit in the High Court in Pretoria appealing for protection against executive interference in the bank and detailing the extensive political pressure it came under from the ruling ANC party‚ Cabinet ministers and Oakbay after its closed the company’s accounts. BusinessLive reports the affidavit… December 15, 2016