As the prospect of a traditional Christmas Day lunch looms with its hours in the kitchen followed by ages at the sink, some families are opting to kick back and have a restaurant do all the work. Umnenga Lodge owner Calista Stanton said the hotel would be transformed into a Hawaiian paradise and the island-themed lunch buffet would feature traditional dishes with a seafood twist. “We are having a luau party with flowers everywhere and Father Christmas in boardshorts and a beach buggy. “Last year, we had a theme from the movie Frozen with snow and angels and the year before that it was the circus. “I love the decorating, it lets out my dramatic side.” One of the highlights of the meal will be the Hansen Christmas Cake which bears her family name. “The recipe is hundreds of years old and has over 31 ingredients, but until last year it was never written down,” said Stanton. The lunch costs R395 per adult and R195 for children. “My whole team gets involved in the day. It sucks to work on Christmas Day so we decided to make it fun. It’s not just another day.” “Boerekos” will be on the menu at Oppieplaas at Haga Haga on December 25, when restaurant owner and chef Erna Taljaard cooks up a Christmassy storm in her countryside venue. “There will be fancy phylo pastry with prawns and risotto and biltong balls for starters, followed by leg of lamb, gammon and roast chicken and of course veggies and crispy potatoes followed by sticky chocolate pudding and ice-cream with caramel sauce,” said Taljaard. “I grew up with lamb so I make it like my mom did, with a few personal twists. I do the cooking myself – it must be perfect. “We make it very festive, with Christmas crackers and music and the kids are welcome here. We usually get people from East London as well as holidaymakers from Kei Mouth, Morgan Bay and Bosbokstrand.” Lunch costs R280 per person, but is usually sold out by the week before Christmas. At Pinecreek Restaurant, events manager Morné Classen will be donning an elf suit to welcome guests and ensure they are having a festive time at their Christmas lunch buffet, which will be held on Christmas Eve. “We want our staff to have family time on Christmas Day and so we do our lunch on December 24. “Last year, we had a dinner and there were hundreds of people here,” said Classen, who is hosting a traditional Christmas buffet with all the trimmings. The groaning buffet tables will include nine starters and salads, four meat dishes including glazed gammon with pineapple, cherry and estate brandy, platters of vegetables and four festive puddings. “At the end of the day it is super expensive for people to buy all of this and then someone has to cook it and then there is the schlep of the dishes, but if you go out for lunch it’s all made for you and then you can go home for a nap. We are going to have a very festive day at Pinecreek,” said Classen. The lunch is already fully booked with 189 people on the waiting list. —
barbarah@dispatch.co.za Two legal eagles, both loyal subjects of abaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo, are providing legal services for free (pro bono) in order to “save the king”. Advocate Lusindiso Matotie and instructing attorney Sindile Toni, both from Cofimvaba, were instrumental in ensuring the abaThembu monarch spent Christmas Day with his family and… December 29, 2015 Pockets of Beacon Bay have again been transformed into a magical Christmas wonderland of festive lights and music. At Nevette and Derick Greyvenstein’s home in Kelvin Grove Street, visitors can enjoy a hi-tech music show featuring dancing lights choreographed to Christmas song re-mixes. X-ray technician Derick has set up a… December 10, 2015 A Stutterheim family has just endured a second Christmas searching for their missing relative. Pensioner Mbuzeni Ngemntu, 78, was last seen outside his Kubusi village home on December 22 last year. Frantic searches at mortuaries, police stations and hospitals have so far yielded no positive results. Ngemntu, who was last… December 29, 2015