By Jon Houzet The family of farmer Riaan Scheepers from Alexandria near Port Alfred said this evening that Scheepers had died after a weeks-long battle to stay alive following a savage beating from robbers at the farm he managed late last month. A message from his daughter Bianca Scheepers shared on WhatsApp‚ states: “Papa went to a better place this afternoon at about 5pm. One of his lungs struggled to get air and let enough oxygen into his blood. His heart was too weak to work anymore. We want to thank everyone for all your concern‚ prayers and support during this time. We value it.” (“Pappa het vanmiddag ongeveer 17h na ‘n beter plek gegaan… Sy een long het gesukkel om lug te kry en genoeg suurstof in die bloed te laat. Sy hart was te swak om verder te werk. Ons wil vir elkeen regtig dankie sê vir al die omgee‚ gebede en ondersteuning in die tyd. Ons waardeer dit.”) On December 1 a 24-year-old man‚ Siphamandla Petse‚ 24‚ was arrested in connection with the attack and appeared in the Alexandria Magistrate’s Court. In light of Scheeper’s death‚ the initial charge of house robbery is likely to be changed to murder at the discretion of the court. Click here for more on this breaking story at www.talkofthetown.co.za 
Source: TMG Digital. Afrikaans singer Steve Hofmeyr tweeted on Thursday that the setting aside of an interim protection order against puppeteer Conrad Koch in the Randburg Magistrate's Court signalled the end of freedom of expression. "Die einde van Vryheid van Uitdrukking. Die media is darem volgende" [The end of freedom of expression. The… November 27, 2014 There is a small room in Southernwood where pony-tailed schoolgirls emerge a couple of hours later as groomed young women in beautiful gowns and sparkling heels. Project Rags to Riches founder Cheryl Scheepers, 65, is the fairy godmother figure who makes sure girls who can’t afford to attend their Grade… November 27, 2017 TWO brothers, apparently concerned about their sister’s honour, took their fists and a samurai sword to her ex-lover in a brutal assault after he sent compromising pictures of her to her ex-husband. The sexual dalliance and its bloody aftermath have played themselves out again in East London’s courts, four years… October 17, 2013