A Ngqmakhwe family is mourning the death of the head of their family, while others are counting the cost of the weekend tornado that left a trail of destruction when it cut through several villages. Vela Dindile, 61, of Lahlangubo village is the only person confirmed to have been killed by the tornado that ripped through at least three villages. Three people in a nearby village have been confirmed injured when the walls of their homes caved in as a result of the tornado. When the Daily Dispatch visited the bereaved family, villagers were holding a prayer meeting while people in the nearby village were collecting pieces of the broken wall and furniture, flung far and wide by the storm, close to electrical lines dangling dangerously. Dindile’s wife, Nolulamile Dindile, said her husband had left home at about 9am on Saturday morning to attend a funeral in Sirhoseni village and had never returned. “He was rushing to a funeral. I was concerned when by 5pm he had not returned home. “I called him on his cellphone at about 6pm but his cellphone was on voicemail.” Some of the mourners told her the last time they had seen Dindile was when the weather turned for the worse, with the tornado approaching in the distance. “They said he said he was rushing home in an effort to be at home before the tornado. I could not sleep the whole night being worried as to what could have happened to him. “At 4am the following morning [Sunday] I woke up my neighbour and called other relatives to go and search for him,” Nolulamile said. They were joined by others in the search for Dindile in the valley and rivers. “He was later found, his bones broken. His jacket was found metres away from him, twisted around wire mesh and torn. We think that while on his way home he was struck by the tornado which twisted the wire mesh [around his body] and killed him,” his wife said. The couple have nine children and four grandchildren. In the nearby village of Sirhoseni at least 10 homes were either totally or partially destroyed and some families displaced. Mahlubi Mqoqi 67, counted about three family members who had been injured by the tornado, although only one is in hospital. “[Part of] my daughter-in-law Nosiviwe Mqoqi’s house fell on her and left her with both legs broken, injuring her young son who was with her when the event happened, suffering minor injuries. My nephew Luntu Mqoqi was also injured when a wall fell on his house, but he was treated and discharged,” said Mqoqi. He said his daughter-in-law was in hospital in Butterworth and expected to undergo surgery yesterday Sirhoseni villagers said that this was the second time this year that a tornado had hit the area. “This area has become prone to natural disasters and I think that the government, Amathole district municipality, as well as the Mnquma local municipality, must quickly assist people in rebuilding their homes,” said Mqoqi. Mvuyo Mkoka said that his nephew Thandi Mkoka had just finished fixing his roof at his six-room house last last month, when it was again struck by a tornado. Mnquma mayor Thobeka Bikitsha visited the bereaved family and those with damaged homes. Municipal spokesman Loyiso Mpalantshane said officials from the Amathole district municipality had visited the area on Sunday. “But the mayor has come to see for herself the damage caused and convey her message of condolence to the bereaved family and see what the pressing needs are so that she can liaise with Amathole leadership.” Dindile will be buried on December 17. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za Several people are believed to have been killed by a twister which swept through parts of Mnquma local municipality on Saturday, injuring several others and leaving countless residents homeless in one village. Amathole district municipality spokeswoman Noni Vuso yesterday confirmed only one death, but villagers spoke of another three deaths.… December 4, 2017 More than 20 houses collapsed after a tornado ripped through Dutywa on Thursday afternoon. Residents of Lower Bolothwa, Lota and Nqabane villages had not anticipated any damage when it first hit but soon after, walls collapsed, leaving them with nothing. Ntombende Vayeke of Toli administrative area lost six rooms. The… March 12, 2016 A woman of 81 was killed, 15 people were injured and hundreds of homes damaged as a devastating hailstorm swept through about 50 Eastern Cape villages on Wednesday afternoon. Several bridges linking villages to urban centres in Ntabankulu, Mount Ayliff and Mount Frere and a number of schools were also… February 5, 2016