A schoolgirl who last week survived a brutal rape in which she was stabbed, bludgeoned and buried alive has been discharged from hospital after a week in ICU. She was discharged on Friday from Bhisho Hospital. According to her parents, the Grade 9 pupil, 16, is recovering at home near the King William’s Town village where she suffered the attack. Yesterday her mother told the Daily Dispatch that the teen had been stabbed 25 times. She has tested negative for sexually transmitted diseases and pregnancy. “We are glad that she was not infected but she is scheduled for more tests just to confirm. Her next appointment with the doctor is January 26,” the mother of seven told the Dispatch. “The number of wounds suggest that he wanted to kill her but God said no.” The mother, victim and the alleged perpetrator – who is known to the victim – cannot be named due to the sexual nature of the crime. King William’s Town spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa said the man appeared in the Zwelitsha Magistrate’s Court last week on rape and attempted murder charges. He was arrested on the day of the crime and is being held in custody. Mawisa said the case was postponed for December 21 for a formal bail application. The mother said her daughter would undergo trauma counselling. The teen was rushed to Grey Hospital in King William’s Town on Saturday December 2 with life-threatening injuries and was later transferred to Bhisho due to the severity of the wounds. She had been found by passersby half-naked at a bottom of a bridge after she had apparently dug herself out of the shallow grave she had been buried in. According to King William’s Town police, she was attacked while returning home from a party with friends at 2am on Saturday. A young girl stared death in the face as she was being mauled by two vicious dogs at the weekend. Achuma Jantjies, 13, has more than 30 wounds on her body with two serious ones on her neck from the horrific attack on Friday afternoon. It happened in Mdantsane’s NU17… December 7, 2015 Several weeks after being admitted to the Frere Hospital after a head-on accident in Beacon Bay in August, survivor Someleze Mhlwazi is back home, recovering. The 11-year-old boy was one of 15 pupils who were flung out of an unroadworthy Toyota Condor which collided head-on with a bakkie. The accident… October 10, 2014 A schoolgirl  is fighting for her life in an  Eastern Cape hospital after being abducted, bound, bludgeoned, stabbed, strangled, raped and buried in a shallow grave. Police have arrested a man who was at a  shebeen nearby. The Grade 9 pupil, 16, who may not be named due to the… December 14, 2017