The ANC in the Eastern Cape has reacted with shock to the news of initiates allegedly killing a woman in Berlin this weekend.  Police have arrested  five initiates – aged between 16 and 20 – following the murder of a 62-year-old woman at Mncotsho village in Berlin, outside East London, at about 10pm on Sunday. It is alleged that these initiates were in their hut when they heard a woman’s voice outside threatening that all initiates will die, they then went out and attacked her with sticks, she died on the scene, said Cambridge police spokesman Captain  Mluleki Mbi.  The initiates are expected to  appear in the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court today. ANC provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane said the news were disturbing and hurtful. “Abakhwetha were in a process of being taught to protect families, women and those vulnerable in the society and not to murder them as alleged,” he said. “The ANC in the Eastern Cape sends its deepest condolences to the family of the woman. We call on law enforcement agencies to do thorough investigation on this matter so that we ascertain the details surrounding the death of this lady who is a mother and relative to her family.” Society will not rest until details of this case are ascertained, he said. “As the ANC we encourage police and NPA to work together to get to the bottom of this matter,” said Mabuyane. Three Eastern Cape initiates have been charged with murder after the death of a 59-year-old woman on Christmas Eve. The three are part of a group of five initiates from Berlin between the ages of 16 and 20 accused of killing Nolulamo “Lulu” Faku – a crime which the provincial… December 28, 2017 Five initiates have been arrested for murder after they allegedly killed a 62-year-old woman after finding her at their camp at 10 pm on Sunday. The incident took place at Berlin's Mncotsha Village outside East London on Sunday. Cambridge Police spokesman Captain Mluleki Mbi said the woman allegedly arrived at… December 26, 2017 Three teenagers, one who said he was a traditional surgeon, have appeared in court in connection with the murder and assault of initiates. Traditional surgeon Aviwe Mfitshi, 19, appeared in the Ngqeleni Magi Court yesterday with two coaccused aged 16 and 17 who cannot be named as they are minors.… August 6, 2015