Mandla Mandela, speaking yesterday on the fourth anniversary of his grandfather Nelson Mandela’s death, said it was ironic that Madiba’s “ardent enemies” were part of the celebration. “One of the great ironies of our time is that Madiba is even claimed posthumously by ardent enemies of what he stood for.” He described these enemies as “political parties, counter-revolutionaries and reactionaries. Some of these have questionable credentials. “Others have a poor human rights track record.” Mandla said Israel had claimed that Madiba had been their friend. He said: “This is utter hogwash and can never be countenanced in the presence of Madiba’s crystal clear utterances that the greatest moral issue of our time is Palestine.” Nelson Mandela had also said: “Our freedom shall remain incomplete without the freedom of the Palestinian people.” Mandla said he would draw up a motion at the ANC elective conference later this month calling for South Africa to cut diplomatic ties with Israel. Mandla and family members recently visited Pakistan, Jordan and Palestine. He was overwhelmed by the adoration and respect with which South Africa’s first democratically-elected president was held there. “This year, we commemorate the fourth anniversary of Nkosi Dalibhunga’s passing. It is said that the truly great never die, they just grow in stature,” said Mandla, who is the senior traditional leader of Mvezo, the birthplace of Madiba. “We were touched by the passion with which volunteers in Jordan working for the protection of the environment held up [Mandela] as their inspiration. “And we were inspired to hear the stories of the camaraderie between [Mandela] and the late comrade-president Yasser Arafat.” Mandla said he was told by Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas: “We were not friends, we were brothers.” Mandla said that on the streets of Hebron, children as young as seven chanted “Mandela” and insisted on taking selfies. Among academics and politicians in Lahore, Pakistan, Nelson Mandela was hailed as a great revolutionary. Mandla said it had become customary for a number of Mandela family members to spend time in Qunu from December 5. “It will be a solemn time. We will pray and give thanks for a giant that walked among us; one who dedicated his life to serving humanity. A colossal cedar fell four years ago. Family, friends and fellow revolutionaries continue to miss him every day,” said Mandla. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za A great grandson of Nelson Mandela wishes Madiba had seen his graduation from initiation school. “I wish he could have been here,” said Mayibuye Mandela, 21, during his umgidi in Mvezo on Saturday. Mayibuye has lived in Mvezo with his uncle Nkosi Mandla Mandela since 2011. “I want to be like… January 19, 2015 He’s losing control of Mandela affairs to Makaziwe He fights court ruling on family burial row He shuns Bizos court action association MANDLA Mandela’s defiance of senior Mandela family members has backfired and he is finding himself out in the cold. He has fallen from grace and his position in… July 1, 2013 FORMER President Nelson Mandela was discharged from a Johannesburg hospital yesterday after he was admitted for a routine check-up on Saturday afternoon. Madiba’s grandson, Nkosi Mandla Mandela, confirmed his grandfather had been admitted for a routine check-up on Saturday afternoon, but had returned to his Houghton home in Johannesburg yesterday… March 11, 2013