By MALIBONGWE DAYIMANI and ZIPO-ZENKOSI NCOKAZI A rescue mission in Port St Johns for two people who are feared to have drowned at Second Beach had to be abandoned due to bad weather yesterday. Provincial health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said they had received reports yesterday afternoon that three people may have drowned and a helicopter from Mthatha had immediately been dispatched. “Our East London helicopter could not make it because of the weather and even the Mthatha one almost had to turn back. Eventually they had to abandon the rescue operation due to the [bad] weather. We have received some reports that there may have been one survivor with the two others still missing,” said Kupelo. By late yesterday afternoon Kupelo said they had no other details about the possible victims, including gender or age. lThree men have been arrested by the Hawks in possession of mandrax tablets worth R700 000. The suspects, aged between 29 and 49 years, were arrested in Komani on Friday during an intelligence-driven operation between the Hawks’ South African Narcotics Enforcement Bureau (SANEB) and Crime Intelligence Unit. Eastern Cape provincial Hawks spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni said: “At about 2am on Friday morning, members stopped a Toyota Corolla which was travelling in Queenstown. While searching the vehicle members found 20000 Mandrax tablets hidden in the door panels.” Feni said the seized narcotics had an estimated street value of about R700000. The vehicle which was used in the commission of this crime was also seized. The three suspects are expected to appear in the Komani Magistrate’s Court today to face charges of drug dealing. lA young East London woman was arrested on Wednesday for possession of suspected stolen property after she was found with clothing valued at R100000. East London police spokeswoman Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala said the woman, 26, would appear in the East London Magistrate’s Court today. She was arrested by a multi-unit police team that focused on investigating serious crimes, including a spate of business robberies in the city. Warrant Officer Mqala said the clothes were from leading retailers including Edgars, Foschini and Woolworths. — malibongwe@dispatch.co.za Rescue officials were late yesterday afternoon searching for a helicopter which crashed in one of Lusikisiki’s deep gorges. Though it was not clear at the time of writing, how many people were travelling in the chopper at the time, police confirmed it had crashed in Lusikisiki's Msikaba area in rainy weather.… August 4, 2016 Two SA National Defence Force (SANDF) soldiers are missing, believed to have drowned, at Port St Johns Second Beach on Saturday. No lifeguards were on duty at the time as the municipality is yet to permanently appoint them. A search was launched for the missing men by the NSRI and… April 18, 2016 Tragedies in Tsolo, Port St Johns and Qumbu. SEVEN people are believed to have drowned in the Transkei in three separate incidents following heavy rains over the weekend. Among the victims were a Tsolo mother and two of her children who died while crossing an overflowing Ngcolosi River on Sunday.… November 19, 2013