SA’s tax revenue will be negatively affected if Steinhoff does not survive the corruption scandal in which it has been implicated‚ says Deputy Finance Minister Sfiso Buthelezi. He was speaking to reporters in Johannesburg on Friday following a meeting between the ministry and stakeholders‚ which resulted in a probe being launched into the retailer’s activities. Stakeholders included the CEO Initiative‚ the Manufacturing Circle‚ the Government Employees Pension Fund‚ the JSE‚ the Public Investment Corporation (PIC)‚ the South African Revenue Service (SARS)‚ the Financial Services Board (FSB) and the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors (Irba). The international retailer‚ which has a dual listing on the JSE and in Frankfurt‚ has been hit by allegations of fraud and corruption‚ which led to it losing billions of dollars of its total market value. Buthelezi said if the company collapsed‚ it would not only affect direct shareholders and pension funds‚ but also reduce tax revenue collection. A collapse would result in thousands of workers at its numerous South African businesses losing their jobs in a country already suffering from high unemployment and inequality levels. –Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/retail-and-consumer/2017-12-18-end-of-steinhoff-will-dent-budget-warns-finance-ministry/ Trade union federation Cosatu has expressed its anger over the reported accounting irregularities at household goods retailer Steinhoff. Steinhoff announced on Wednesday that CEO Markus Jooste was stepping down with immediate effect in connection with the irregularities. "The federation demands swift and decisive action to ascertain what transpired and for… December 8, 2017 Malusi Gigaba has been appointed the new minister of finance in a much anticipated cabinet reshuffle. Gigaba‚ who was appointed Home Affairs Minister in 2014 and previously served as minister of Public Enterprises‚ will now hold one of the most difficult positions in cabinet. A former president of the ANC… March 31, 2017 Steinhoff International CEO Marcus Jooste resigned on Tuesday night‚ and the release of the company’s full-year results - originally scheduled for Wednesday - has been delayed indefinitely. The group’s chairman‚ retail tycoon Christo Wiese‚ alongside former Pepkor CEO Pieter Erasmus‚ will run Steinhoff until a new CEO is appointed‚ a… December 6, 2017