This year has not been a walk in the park for many celebrities‚ who like millions of South Africans‚ became victims of crime.  1. Vusi Nova In September RnB singer Vusi Nova was kidnapped in a hijacking outside his Melville home and was taken on a joyride. Vusi was stripped naked‚ beaten and asked to sing for his life. Shortly after the incident‚ Vusi said he feared for his life and even though he felt ridiculed as he ran for his life‚ he was grateful to be alive. 2. Actor Jamie Bartlett The year didn’t get off to a great start for the veteran actor‚ who was stuffed in the boot of his car and taken on a joyride in January. Jamie was attacked by three armed men at a robot in Johannesburg and was kidnapped hours. Apparently the actor was dropped off in an unknown place‚ where he waited to get help. 3. Nasty C In September Nasty C was left traumatised after two armed men stormed his house with a gun and knife‚ and made off with belongings including a pricey Rolex watch. 4. Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters In June Demi‚ who was traveling near Hyde Park‚ Johannesburg‚ was surrounded by a group of men when she stopped at the robot. A quick thinking Demi forced her way out of the vehicle by punching one of the suspects in the throat and escaped unharmed. Award-winning RnB musician Vusi Nova has often had to deal with speculation about his sexuality and told TshisaLIVE that there was a time that the rumours really affected him. Vusi burst onto the music scene in 2009 with his debut album Ndimfumene and shortly after had to fight off speculation… February 7, 2017 One of Vusi Nova's neighbours has said the musician asked about crime in the area just hours before the musician was hijacked and abducted outside his Melville home in Johannesburg. The neighbour‚ who did not want to be named‚ told TshisaLIVE Vusi was concerned about safety in the area after… August 25, 2017 Award-winning musician Vusi Nova was stripped‚ beaten and abandoned in Soweto after being kidnapped in a 2 hour horror hijacking on Friday morning. The star was hijacked alongside four others outside his house in Melville‚ Johannesburg. Shots were fired and according to Nova's management some of the group managed to… August 25, 2017