The newly appointed board of Eskom has until June 2018‚ the date of the next AGM‚ to finalise all investigations and disciplinary proceedings against senior officials implicated in “malfeasance”. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown gave the instruction on Friday‚ during a special general board meeting at Eskom’s headquarters at Megawatt Park‚ Johannesburg. She also dispensed advice to the new board. It is expected the board‚ which includes Deputy Minister of Public Enterprises Ben Martins‚ will discuss Eskom’s various problems‚ including the appointment of a new group chief executive‚ which is Brown’s first priority. The Times this morning reported that suspended CEO Matshela Koko has been found not guilty of six charges‚ including allegedly failing to declare a conflict of interest when his stepdaughter was awarded a tender by a division he led. Board chairman Zethembe Khoza confirmed he had received the final report from the hearing’s chairman Mtombeni Mzungulu‚ but said it was now going through “board processes”. Brown meanwhile had some sage advice for the new board: “Serving as board members of state-owned companies in the presently contested business and political environment is not for softies. “Unlike those who serve on the boards of private companies‚ you will be regarded with suspicion and mistrust. While you are susceptible to corruption‚ capture‚ greed and malice. Who they associate with is inconsequential. They call it lobbying. “You must be careful who you play golf with‚ because it will be used as evidence against you.” Brown encouraged the board to be steadfast in executing its duty. “Ultimately‚ boards can only be as strong as the executive teams they command. It’s the information you get from exec teams that allow you to make decisions. Eskom is as reliant on the honesty and diligence of its CEOs‚ CFOs as any private company‚” she said. Brown also mandated the board to “take decisive action to address challenges of leadership‚ governance‚ liquidity and ethics. “The finalisation of the investigation into all suspended executives is of paramount importance to rebuild reputation and to restore investor confidence‚” she said. “Furthermore‚ I urge you to deal with all issues that led to a qualified audit opinion‚ as the company cannot afford a repeat in this financial year.” She said these steps would be crucial in rebuilding Eskom’s image in the minds of investors and the public. Public Enterprise Minister Lynne Brown says she will refer Eskom’s coal supply contracts and other deals dating back to a decade ago to the Special Investigating Unit (SIU). Brown said this during a meeting with Parliament’s standing committee on public accounts on Tuesday. The committee was also due to hear… May 30, 2017 Health ombudsman Malegapuru Makgoba is one of two new members on the Eskom board announced by Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown on Friday. The second is legal practitioner and academic Tshepo Mongalo. A third candidate‚ with business strategy expertise was approved for appointment by cabinet but declined the nomination citing… December 8, 2017 Minister of Public Enterprises Lynne Brown has granted Eskom’s board more time to come up with a new pension payout proposal for the parastatal’s former group chief executive Brian Molefe. This is after Brown last week rejected a R30-million “golden handshake” for the former Eskom boss and instructed the electricity… April 26, 2017