At least ten people, including two pedestrians, have been killed as a result of accidents on Eastern Cape roads between December 23 and today.  Four others, including a 12-year-old boy, drowned and died in various parts of the province in the same period. Provincial health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo this morning said a female driver died on the notorious N6 road between Aliwal North and Jamestown when a white Polo she was travelling in overturned. Three of the passengers she was travelling with are still fighting for their lives in hospital, according to Kupelo. He said a gruesome head-on collision just 10km outside Grahamstown on December 24, claimed the lives of four people, including two minors. Kupelo said the two children and two adults died when a Cape Town registered Toyota Avanza they were travelling in collided head on with a Silver BMW X5, killing the four Avanza occupants instantly. On Christmas Day on the R61 road near Bizana, three people were killed when a vehicle they were travelling in lost control and overturned, according to provincial transport spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie. Rantjie said the Bizana accident claimed the lives of two adults and a six-month-old baby. “Also on Christmas Day, two pedestrians were knocked down and killed by speeding vehicles in two separate accidents in the Mthatha CBD,” Rantjie said. At least 10 people, including two pedestrians and three children, have been killed on Eastern Cape roads in the five days between December 23 and yesterday. Three others drowned in various parts of the province in the same period. A boy of 12, still missing, is feared drowned. Provincial health… December 28, 2017 Five people including two children were killed during a head-on collision between a Toyota Quantum and  Renault SUV on the N2 outside Tsolo. https://youtu.be/jEQYWMT18LU Health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the five died on the scene of the accident. “Unfortunately five people are deceased including two children. Only one child… December 10, 2016 Eight people were killed in a head-on collision between a bakkie and a car outside Ngcobo this evening. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the accident happened just before 7pm. Four other people were injured and are in a critical condition, he said. According to Transport spokeswoman  Khuselwa Rantjie, the… May 2, 2017