Rhodes University’s SRC has rejected the university’s decision not to change its name and urged students to keep the name change on the agenda. The university’s council announced this week that following two years of wide consultation and highly charged debate, it had decided to retain the name. But, said the SRC in a statement, the name had a deep-rooted association with violence and mass oppression which was contrary to the constitution and vision for a post-apartheid South Africa. The SRC is represented on the council by its president Rolihlahla Mabaso and vice-president Dingaan Booi. The decision to retain the name was made by a secret ballot in which nine of 24 voted against retaining the name and 15 in favour. “It is of great concern that despite all the calls and lobbying for the university’s name to change, the majority of the university council has voted to keep the name,” said the SRC. It said the council had used the “rhetoric of consequences and costs” to argue against name change. Although the council outlined dozens of considerations in a six-page long statement, it said one of the main reasons was the university’s precarious financial position. But the SRC said it could not accept that the university would place finances above moral considerations. “As with any change, especially in the era of transformation, there are bound to be reservations and concerns, but these should never outweigh the significance of moving away from our oppressive past and unreservedly condemning it.” Rhodes University’s student body has backed calls to rename the institution though there has been no referendum. Student representative council (SRC) president Zikisa Maqubela yesterday said they had canvassed opinion widely and considered both sides of the argument. He said the SRC met over the vacation to discuss an internal… July 30, 2015 Wits University’s female students on Tuesday joined their counterparts at Rhodes University in the protest against rape. Wits University’s Student Representative Council (SRC) and the Gender Office led a protest outside the institution’s Great Hall in solidarity with the protest at Rhodes University. Like the Rhodes students‚ Wits female students… April 26, 2016 Thousands of disgruntled students from the University of Cape Town are expected to take part in a massive march today for the removal of the Cecil John Rhodes statue on the campus. Their two week #RhodesMustFall campaign fighting for “institutional transformation” has reached Rhodes University venting on social media about… March 20, 2015