Sergeant Sizwe Gaika, the policeman central to piecing together the puzzle that led to the arrest of serial rapist Lonwabo Solontsi, cannot wait for the predator to be jailed. He says it is one of the worst of many terrible cases he has dealt with. The national crime DNA profile database based in Pretoria is connecting seemingly disparate crimes in a way that was impossible a decade ago. This, together with a thorough investigation directed by Gaika and formidable senior state Advocate Nickie Turner, built such a powerful case against Solontsi that this week he caved in and pleaded guilty to 67 charges, 39 of which were rape. Solontsi raped and robbed dozens of women, children and teenagers during his crime spree spanning five years from 2010 to 2015. Gaika, who works in the SA Police Services provincial office, says the Pretoria office had informed them that DNA obtained from numerous victims suggested the possibility of a serial rapist terrorising people in the Willowvale and Dutywa area. Solontsi was already in his crosshairs and was quickly arrested. A DNA swab linked him not only to cases in Willowvale and Dutywa but also to others in Alice and Bathurst and two out of province. A quick perusal of the victims’ statements from the rape in Stellenbosch in the Western Cape and one in Rustenburg in North West province convinced Gaika they had the right man. In many of his cases, Solontsi would rape his victim, cover their faces with an item of discarded clothing and make them count to 100 while he made his escape. Gaika applied in terms of the DNA Act to centralise all the cases for investigation and prosecution in the Eastern Cape. “I am pleased he now faces a long time in jail.” Gaika was also central to bringing to heel another serial predator earlier this year. Like with Solontsi, repeat rapist Mzikayise Mkavu was tied via DNA to 17 rapes in KwaNobuhle between 2008 and 2016. He was sentenced to 13 life terms in prison. Gaika said that the one thing that upset him was his certainty that there were victims that had been too afraid to come forward. He said Solontisi was a serial offender who seldom took a lengthy break from his predatory activities. “… I am afraid there may be some people who did not come forward.” He urged victims of crime to always come forward. Turner is asking for life sentences in at least a dozen of the rape charges. Serial predator Lonwabo Solontsi this week re-traumatised some of his victims by smirking at them and gesturing to them in court that he could see them, one of the women indicated in court yesterday. Several of the women gave evidence yesterday about how the rapist destroyed their intimate relationships with… December 16, 2017 Former  Fort Hare University student Lonwabo Solontsi, 28, yesterday pleaded guilty to 39 rapes over five years, several of which were perpetrated at the university. The serial rapist – a dapper, wellbuilt man – raped wherever he lived and his crimes were committed across three provinces, the Eastern and Western… December 15, 2017 Victims of serial rapist Lonwabo Solontsi, 28, who this week pleaded guilty to 39 rapes, today testified how the rapes destroyed their relationships, caused unwanted pregnancies, night terrors, depression, terrifying flashbacks and fear of people. Solontsi was this week convicted in the Grahamstown High Court of all 39 rapes and… December 15, 2017