Two stabbing incidents in just three days have rocked a Gonubie school. The first stabbing took place on February 14, Valentine s Day, and the second on Friday, both at Mzamowethu Public School in Mzamomhle.The Daily Dispatch was alerted to the matter by the aunt of a Grade 6 pupil who was stabbed by another pupil with a pen and cut with a pair of scissors in the second incident. I was disappointed by the lack of support from the school, said the aunt, who may not be identified to protect her.She said the school did nothing to try and get her nephew medical help and told her management was unable to intervene. [This] left me and the boy s mother scratching around for money to hire a car to transport the boy to the hospital, she said. [Her nephew] said he was stabbed by the other pupil after he accidently stood on his toes while they were changing periods and heading to another class. She said he was stabbed with a pen and slit with a pair of scissors on the forehead.Her nephew was first taken to a clinic and then to Frere hospital, where he received four stitches. At the clinic they told us [the cut] was very deep and we needed to take him to hospital. We had to borrow money to do so, she said.The Daily Dispatch visited the school yesterday morning and spoke to school governing body member Soso Tozamo, who confirmed both incidents. He said the incident on Valentine s Day had occurred when two friends, aged 15 and 17, got into an argument and one stabbed the other. The argument erupted when the younger child mocked the other for dressing up in red and white, which was permitted on that day as part of the school s fundraiser. The younger boy teased the other and called him a woman for dressing up. That s when the other boy pulled out a knife and stabbed his friend in his back. Tozamo said the boy was rushed to the hospital by the principal, an SGB member and a parent. His wound needed three stitches. We were aware of the more recent incident, but did not know the family needed financial assistance to transport the boy to hospital, said Tozamo.He attributed the two attacks to a lack of security at the school. It s only after these incidents the parents have committed to contribute to a security guard at the school, but the biggest challenge is fencing, because weapons and drugs can easily be brought in. Tozamo said the matter had been settled between the two friends and there had been no need to pursue it any further. A case had not been opened with police regarding the second incident either.Education spokesman Malibongwe Mtima said: The principal has been told to submit an official report on the matter to ensure that all allegations are dealt with accordingly. The report will be used as a source when investigations kick in. mbalit@dispatch.co.za