Educaiton MEC Mandla Makupula is being investigated by the Commission for Gender Equality (GCE) for remarks he made about teachers dress codes. The MEC said teachers who wear T-shirts, jeans and takkies to school were tsotsis and likened a teacher wearing a denim dress to a cleaning lady. He was speaking at an event in Mdantsane earlier this month when shoes were handed over to pupils from various schools in the area.In a recording of his speech, the MEC can be heard lambasting teachers for wearing jeans and exposing their wrinkled, sharp knees . Do you know these children look up to you as their role model, saying they want to be like a teacher. Now you come to school wearing takkies, do you think these children want to be you? You are a tsotsi. When people see you, they worry over their purses, wondering if they are safe. I am not going to tell you what to wear but you must be presentable. The MEC then mocked an HoD he said he met at a school in Port Elizabeth. I thought she was the cleaning lady. She was wearing a jean dress. Her knees were showing. When you look at her you can see she is about my age. She was wearing sandals and her heels oh my God. How does she teach children with those wrinkled, sharp knees? I am not saying it s wrong wearing jeans and All Stars, I know All Stars are expensive. But please be presentable and ask yourself what are you teaching those children when you wear jeans and takkies. GCE spokesman Javu Baloyi said when they heard the MEC s remarks, the commission decided to conduct an investigation. We got the audio, which was in isiXhosa, and after it was translated our officer decided that we had a case, said Baloyi.This is not the first time the MEC has been investigated for remarks deemed offensive or violations of other people s rights.In 2013 he was ordered to apologise for undermining the human rights of children after he said: No child dependent on their parents for food and shelter has any rights. This evoked a public outcry, culminating in a complaint being laid with the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) against the MEC. After a preliminary investigation, the SAHRC wrote to him recommending he apologise and unconditionally retract the statement, which he did.Commenting on the MEC s recent remarks, education spokesman Loyiso Pulumani said the utterance was taken completely out of context and the engagement with teachers was focused on encouraging them to embrace their role as role models. It was unfortunate that some of the MEC s utterances, said in jest, have been taken completely out of context, thus derailing his critical underlying message. At no stage were personal names used or specific individuals referred to. There was zero intention to be malicious, other than to reinvigorate and focus attention on important matters required to change the direction of our schooling. Baloyi said they wrote to the MEC indicating the nature and extent of the alleged violation and gave him 21 days to respond.Makupula is known for other foot-in-mouth statements too. Earlier this year, at a press conference, he said he had no idea why the premier chose him as the education MEC.He has spoken on several occasions about how he learned to smoke at school in the boys toilets.About two years ago, Makupula told Eastern Cape House of Traditional leaders chairman Ngangomhlaba Matanzima during an event in Tsolo, where President Jacob Zuma was present, that he was being a windbag (uyagrama). He later apologised. arethal@dispatch.co.za