Two men were arrested after they were allegedly found in possession of a mini cache of arms, including explosives, at a Mthatha village at the weekend. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said the weapons were discovered by K9 and crime information gathering members during a raid at Qweqwe village near Mthatha on Friday. The operation, which started at 6am, saw our members recover an assault R5 rifle, a BXP semi-automatic firearm and explosives. There were also a total of 170 rounds of ammunition, said Fatyela. Our members were following a tip-off when they made the recovery and arrested the two men, who are 33 and 47 years old. We do not know what the suspects were going to do with the firearms and where they got the ammunition, the firearms and the explosives, he said.Fatyela said they were currently experiencing a surge in armed robberies and taxi violence in the area, which had resulted in too many deaths.The weapons will be sent for ballistic tests and the suspects will be profiled to determine if they are wanted in connection with other crimes.The men are expected to appear in the Mthatha Magistrate s Court today for possession of illegal firearms, ammunition and explosives.lButterworth police arrested three men at the weekend implicated in different cases, including rape and robbery.A 24-year-old man was arrested in connection with the alleged rape of a 54-year-old woman.Police spokesman Captain Jackson Manatha said the youth allegedly accosted the woman at Booi Farm in Butterworth on Friday at about 11.50am. He was armed with a sword. Msobomvu police were alerted and they responded swiftly. He was chased by the police with the assistance of the community. He was caught on the farm and his sword was [confiscated]. He has been charged with rape and will appear in the Butterworth Magistrate s Court [today]. Manatha said in another unrelated incident police arrested a 25-year-old man in Ngqamakhwe for robbery after he became angry because his love proposal was rejected.The female complainant, also aged 25, was travelling from Ndenxe village to Ntabeni village in Ngqamakhwe on Saturday at about 12pm.As she passed near a forest, she met a man unknown to her. It is alleged the man stopped her and tried to persuade her to fall in love with him.Manatha said the man s request was rejected and this infuriated him.He allegedly robbed the woman of her cellphone and a small amount of money. The woman cried out. The community was alerted and chased the suspect and caught up with him. He was handed over to Ngqamakhwe police, said Manatha.The man was arrested and charged with robbery. The cellphone and money were recovered.He is due to appear in the Ngqamakhwe Magistrate s Court today.Butterworth police also arrested a 28-year-old man for the alleged murder of a 47-year-old man. The deceased, who cannot be named, was stabbed on his upper body on Friday at about 4pm near Railway Cottage in Butterworth. The motive for the murder is not known. The suspect will appear in the Butterworth Magistrate s Court [today] on a murder charge, said Manatha. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za