A high-tech burglary syndicate is said by security companies to be prowling East London streets in luxury cars targeting upmarket homes for top-value loot. The gang strikes when they believe a family is away, according to private security companies Hartwig &#038; Henderson and Red Alert.The syndicate evidently works in two teams of five men each, and they break into up to six homes a weekend looking for fine jewellery and expensive digital equipment, said the companies. However, police yesterday denied the existence of the syndicate, with East London acting police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku saying the allegations about the spate of burglaries were unfounded .A pamphlet published and distributed by Hartwig &#038; Henderson exclaims in capital letters: Beware! A highly organised syndicate is operating in the East London area. It warns of well dressed men in luxury cars scouting premises for intel [intelligence or information] who had technical knowledge of all types of alarm systems and seem to have inside knowledge of belongings .The security companies and victims say homes are targeted in Bonnie Doon, Nahoon, Selborne, Stirling and Beacon Bay.But Mzuku could only confirm two cases of burglary reported from Bonnie Doon during the said times.Home owners and security firms say that since January27, three houses were broken into on the same road in Bonnie Doon Norwood Avenue, which becomes Lower Ridge road.l Former Clarendon High School principal Owen Nel s home in Norwood Avenue was broken into on Thursday evening while the family was out having dinner. The suspects made off with digital equipment and jewellery. lThe home of retired teacher Barry Chapman and wife Sally in Lower Ridge road was broken into on January 27 while the Chapmans were out having dinner. The home was ransacked and electronics and jewellery were stolen.lOn February 18 thieves broke into a Lower Ridge road home a few houses from the Chapmans, owned by Anthony and Debi Godwin.Debi said the thieves had expensive tastes. Judging by what they took and left behind you can tell that they were professionals. Maybe they had someone who used to work at a jeweller or jewellery factory. They only went for gold and took my pearls, earrings, ruby and diamonds, and left the costume jewellery. She commended the police investigation, but was sceptical about ever getting their possessions back. It is the wild west here. No matter what you do to protect your property, they will get in. The couple was robbed while they were away for a weekend. They took my mother s jewellery, my grandmother s and mine. The gang also managed to break into the Godwins safe and stole a pistol. Debi suspected the thieves looked for alarm lights glowing in homes as a tell-tale sign the owners were away.Ross Hartwig of Hartwig &#038; Henderson said the syndicate drove luxury vehicles which were stolen or fraudulently hired. They drive new cars every time they go out to a robbery. Hartwig said the robbers hit at least six houses every weekend. They are very intelligent. They know exactly what they want. When they come across a big box of a lady s jewellery they don t just take the whole thing, but will spend time sorting out what they want. Speaking to the Dispatch yesterday, Nel said he was happy the incident took place while they were away. God knows what could have happened if they found us inside. The thieves stole camera and computer equipment and jewellery. They gained entry though an upstairs window into the bedroom. It is annoying to come home to see that your property has been invaded and goods are stolen. He opened a case of housebreaking and theft and said: I am very impressed with the level of professionalism from the police. Red Alert operations manager Alistaire Beach said break-ins were on the rise at suburban homes. Since November break-ins have been abnormally high in East London, especially in quiet suburbs. Mzuku said: Our investigations are at an advanced stage. We are working together with the complainant in one of the cases. Unfortunately we can t divulge our investigation and strategies in the media, fearing that the same suspects will read about it. We have intensified our visibility with crime prevention patrols to intercept these suspects and curb further burglaries in our policing precinct. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za