Red-hot Duncan Village boxer Azinga Fuzile was given a hero s welcome at Kusile Comprehensive High School at the weekend for winning the prospect of the year award. The 20-year-old was mobbed by schoolmates and teachers alike, all jostling to touch the trophy he won at the National Boxing Awards ceremony held at the Durban International Convention Centre a fortnight ago.The trophy was his third in the space of the five months since he came to fame with his dominant win over experienced Macbute Sinyabi to seize the SA featherweight title in only his fifth professional fight.He won the WBC Youth title in December before completing the remarkable hat-trick in Durban.Despite his soaring achievements, Fuzile remains humble and mingles freely with his Grade 12 classmates.Fuzile beat seasoned boxers to the award, including homeboy Thulani Mbenge of Mdantsane and Brendon Thysse.Speaking to the Dispatch after being honoured during the school s assembly, Fuzile said he was surprised when he was nominated for the prospect of the year award. I only started hoping to win once I was nominated for the award, he said. Winning made me very happy. Fuzile said the only boxer who worried him in the prospect category was Mbenge, who coincidentally was in action at the weekend when he stopped Ntuthuko Memela in three rounds at Emperors Palace.Fuzile whose boxing club is enjoying a double triumph as his trainer, Mzamo Njekanye, was voted as trainer of the year said his motivation came from his community and school.Addressing the school, the boxer urged his fellow pupils to find a balance between sport and books. I received this award because even though I am new in professional boxing, I was able to beat people who had been here longer than me. I did not only win the award. I also have two championship belts in my name one for SA and the other, WBC. The star said his achievements were the result of hard work and discipline.At the awards, he was also nominated in the fight of the year category for his clash against Sinyabi.The school s sports coordinator, Sindiswa Mathole, said they were extremely proud of the young boxer.She said even though the school did not have boxing in its sporting codes, it was very supportive of boxers in the school.The teacher said she was emotional when she saw her pupil winning at the awards ceremony. I was jumping, crying and singing as if I was there at the ICC in Durban, she said. 