Thembu acting king Azenathi Zannelizwe Dalindyebo has come out strongly against tribalism, saying it is the rot destroying African unity and creating animosity between kingdoms. He was speaking during a visit to Qhumanco Great Place in Cofimvaba on Friday, while on a tour of all traditional councils and great places in the Thembuland. As Africans we must be one &#8230; and move away, from the pull him down syndrome among Africans. As Africans we should not be divided along tribal lines. We must remain united and be a community in cohesion. We are brothers, Dalindyebo said.He said tribalism had weakened the strength of African people instead of helping them forge unity.Dalindyebo, who is the product of the now badly divided royal family of AmaDlomo, committed himself to rebuilding the strength and unity of his family. If we have disjointed and disintegrated families there will always be a struggle to achieve the goal of having united Africans and nations, he said.Dalindyebo is acting for his father, King Buyelekhaya Zwelibanzi, Dalindyebo who has, since December 2015, been serving a 12-year prison sentence.Dalindyebo was crowned on November 25 last year as acting king. Last week, Eastern Cape Premier Phumulo Masualle, on behalf of the SA government, recognised this appointment.The acting king s visit to traditional leaders included speaking appointments in various communities to outline his programme for the year. His visit to Chief Dumisani Mgudlwa s Qhumanco Great Place was the first of such stops.The 24-year-old spoke passionately about the need for education and youth development, not only among the Thembu, but for all young Africans in the country.Dalindyebo, who is also a university student, encouraged those who had failed in the past to redouble their efforts and continue with their education. I failed a grade, but I continued with my schooling. There are many people who have failed in their lives, but today they are big names because they persisted. We need educated youth. Education is key for the development of an African child, he said.In his Friday speech, the acting king also called for prayers and continued lobbying for the release of his father. My father, King Zwelibanzi, belongs here, so we must pray for his release. I am wearing leopard skin, and not lion skin. The lion skin is for my father, who is still the reigning king of AbaThembu. Hundreds of people, including traditional leaders, travelled from Mthatha, Ngcobo and other areas to listen to their acting king speak for the first time since the government recognised him as acting king.Two cows were slaughtered and umqombothi brewed for the occasion. On March 3 he will visit and speak at a meeting at Bhaziya Great Place near Mthatha. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za