The family of the 14-year-old boy who drowned at the Joan Harrison swimming pools on Saturday has asked the Buffalo City Metro to help with his funeral. The story caused debate on social media with some saying lifeguards were not visible and BCM should shoulder the blame. The family of the dead boy also believes BCM is partly to blame.Nhlanhla Gcokwe from Haven Hills, Amalinda, died in hospital after he was pulled out from the bottom of one the pools on Saturday afternoon.The teen is believed to have been under water for close to 15 minutes.Nhlanhla s grandfather, Siphe Gcokwe said the family was devastated.He said they had asked BCM to assist with the funeral arrangements.Gcokwe said the family felt that BCM was partly to blame for the incident. We have asked BCM for assistance in the funeral preparations and they said they would respond to us by [today], he said.Gcokwe described Nhlanhla as a diligent and obedient boy. He said he had recently moved from Johannesburg and was adapting well in the new city.Democratic Alliance (DA) BCM ward 4 councillor Tessa Botha said she was at the scene when one of the lifeguards was administering CPR on the boy.Botha said there were close to 800 swimmers at the pools, with only five lifeguards present. I visited the swimming complex on Saturday in my capacity as the ward councillor knowing that it was hosting two major events. I was on the scene when one of the lifeguards was administering CPR to Nhlanhla. The paramedics arrived a bit later and I watched as they administered medical care trying to resuscitate him, she said.Botha said there were about six paramedics who tried their utmost best and felt relieved when they asked for a stretcher to transfer him to Frere Hospital.Frere referred the family to the intensive care unit at Cecilia Makiwane Hospital but the teen s family took him to East London Private hospital, where he died hours later.Botha said the DA would submit questions to the council meeting scheduled for February 28 regarding the incident to ensure that safety at Joan Harrison pool complex was enhanced.BCM spokesman Sibusiso Cindi said BCM was still investigating the matter to find out who was liable for the matter. The [general manager[ of community amenities is on leave and will be back on February 27. The acting person says he is currently investigating this matter. Thus it would be premature to answer any questions, said Cindi. qaqambam@dispatch.co.za