Centane residents have raised serious concerns about the proximity of a funeral parlour to a supermarket and a braai place they frequent. The community members have also raised concerns about a foul smell they say sometimes comes from the mortuary which is literally a few metres from the Boxer Supermarket s eating area.Mnzwana Funerals has been operating in Centane, outside Butterworth, since 2006 as an administrative office. Over the years, they have been outsourcing the storage of bodies to a funeral parlour in Butterworth.However, in April this year, they expanded their business and had their own mortuary built behind their admin offices. They claim not to store more than six bodies at any given time saying that is their capacity.By the time of going to print yesterday, Amathole district municipality (ADM) spokesman Siyabulela Makunga had yet to confirm if the funeral parlour was certified to be operating in the area.The Dispatch visited the premises after people raised concerns about how close the parlour was to Boxer s eating area and the shisa nyama.They also complained of a foul smell inside Boxer Supermarket which they blamed on Mnzwana Funerals.Hawkers in the area, who agreed to speak to the Dispatch on condition of anonymity, said the foul smell was not frequently noticeable. The only time there was a smell coming from the parlour was when there was a body coming from afar to be buried in one of the nearby villages, said one hawker.Another hawker said: We are concerned about the sewage pipes coming from the parlour as there are always pipe bursts in the town, with smelly water. The water runs under our tables from where we work. A co-owner of the funeral parlour, Michael Mnzwana, distanced the parlour from any foul odours, saying his house was in order. This is not the first time such allegations have surfaced. At first, I thought it was people being jealous, but now it is getting serious. Such a thing would only happen when there is a power failure, but it is very rare. The only person that should be complaining is the Boxer Supermarket owner, and not anyone else. Chairman of the Funeral Operator s Association in the Eastern Cape Sabelo Capa said a parlour can only operate once a certificate is issued to them. If the parlour has the certificate of competence, then it can operate within the bylaws of the municipality. After the certificate has been issued by the health department, the department of home affairs visits the mortuary and if they are satisfied, they issue a designation number. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo, however, said it was not the department s responsibility to issue compliance certificates, but that of the municipality.Mnquma municipality spokesman Loyiso Mpalantshane also said it was not their responsibility, but that of ADM. However, he committed to look into the matter. Mnquma is gravely concerned about allegations of a foul smell coming from the parlour in Centane. If true, it is an extreme health hazard which threatens the wellbeing of the community and other businesses. Working with environmental health practitioners who are responsible for air pollution control across ADM, Mnquma officials will make an inspection visit to verify the claims of a foul smell. This will help to ensure that appropriate measures are put in place and that there is compliance, said Mpalantshane.Attempts to get comment from Boxer Supermarket proved fruitless at the time of writing. sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za