The Eastern Cape taxi industry has promised to root out those responsible for the latest killings in their industry and banish them from taxi ranks. Provincial chairwoman of the South African National Taxi Council (Santaco) Noluntu Mahashe said their industry operated in a war zone, instead of being a progressive business environment.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch, Mahashe said the killings in the taxi industry were more about leadership squabbles than operating routes. In this taxi industry we are faced with the challenge where leadership clings to power and there s no accountability when it comes to [what has been done with the] money paid [to the association] by members on a daily basis, Mahashe said.Since 2015 more than 30 taxi operators have been killed in East London, Mthatha, Libode and the OR Tambo district.Many of those killed were either in leadership positions or were contesting those who were in leadership.Last month two people who were competing for a chairmanship position at the Mdantsane Uncedo Services Taxi Association (Mdusta) were shot and killed.Mthetheleli Mtheza Mqala was shot and killed in Mdantsane s Highway taxi rank while a friend of his was left wounded and critical in hospital.A week later, Rogers Ntsizi was shot and killed in Braelyn Extension. Both killings occurred in broad daylight. The killers are still at large. Both cases are being investigated by the provincial police organised crime unit.Mahashe said the recent deaths of the two operators have been prioritised by the taxi industry and a number of taxi members have been called to explain what had happened. The taxi leadership in the province wants no more deaths of taxi operators. A meeting has been convened and a decision taken to stop this carnage. We will personally deal with those who are involved and we will hit them where it hurts most their taxis will be taken out of the taxi ranks and they won t operate. We can t work with killers, this is business, not a war-zone, said Mahashe.Border Alliance Taxi Association (Bata) president, Vuyani Mshiywa said the industry did not resemble what they wanted it to be. We want to leave a legacy, a good one and pass the business to our children and their children. This is a lucrative business that needs great minds, not warlords. We can t operate like this, hence those who are found to be involved in these killings will be dealt with, said Mshiywa.He said they were working around the clock to resolve problems facing a number of taxi associations affiliated to Bata. We need leaders who can work towards one goal, to grow the business. I use my fuel and travel all over to resolve problems. We are a business that transports millions daily and other modes of transports are a challenge to us. Instead of focusing on that, we find ourselves having to resolve never-ending conflicts, he said. bonganif@dispatch.co.za