The current initiation season claimed its 10th victim in the province when a Mdantsane initiate was found dead on Monday. Bathini Dyantyi, 17, was found by visitors to the initiation school at Mdantsane s Unit P.The 9th victim, a traditional nurse, succumbed to his burn wounds recently after an initiation hut caught fire in Qumbu a week ago.Only two deaths have been reported in Buffalo City Metro, with the rest coming from the OR Tambo region.Yesterday the deceased initiate s father, Sipindile Dyantyi, was battling to come to terms with his loss.He said the death of his son had not yet set in .Dyantyi said he wanted answers as to what had happened and he could not confirm reports that his son had been assaulted. I have no clue what caused his death. My family is at the mortuary, so they might come back with some answers, the grieving dad said. I need answers as to what really killed him. Cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) spokesman Mamnkeli Ngam told the Daily Dispatch that Bathini had allegedly been assaulted and promised the death would be investigated. We condemn what happened to the initiate and we as the department send our condolences to the family, said Ngam.He said the death of the initiate was one too many. This is the 10th initiate to die in the province and we are concerned about this, he said.When the Daily Dispatch visited Unit P where the initiate had died, it was quiet with only two people seen near the hut.Further up in Mdantsane s NU1, at the Mtsotso initiation site, a number of government officials travelling in state vehicles could be seen talking to initiates and inspecting their huts.Each season the government spends millions and hires 4&#215;4 vehicles for officials to visit and monitor initiation schools around the province.Ngam urged parents to visit their children at initiation schools, saying they could help curb the deaths.He said parents must always be abreast of what was happening and make sure the initiates were safe at all times. We can t leave them to their nurses to look after them. We need parents or relatives to be regulars at these initiation schools to make sure they notice and monitor the progress of their children. The wellbeing of these children is with the relatives and parents, he said.The fire in Qumbu has now claimed the lives of six and injured 20 others, some seriously. bonganif@dispatch.co.za