Food served at funerals and traditional ceremonies has been the only source of nutrition for 40 Limpopo construction workers who were abandoned by their employer contracted by the Eastern Cape department of human settlements to built RDP houses. The contractor, Ntema Investments, which was awarded a R32-million RDP housing project in Frankfort outside Bhisho, upped and left, leaving its employees aged between 21 and 55 without food or toiletries for the past two months.Most of them did not even have money to go home.But thanks to concerned family members who sent transport money, more than half of the men have since gone home.After a week on site, the men had constructed 74 foundations before the project was brought to a halt and they were allegedly not paid for the work done.The stranded workers said they trusted the director of the company, Masingita Nkuna, whom they had worked with on previous projects.Hlulani Nyathi said: We have been working with Masingita for the longest time and it is not the first time we have worked outside Limpopo with him. We trusted him. We left families behind, with the hope that we will return home with some money, he said.Lucky Sekgotha said the only time they ate was when there was a funeral or traditional ceremony at the village. We have never been paid for all the work done relating to the project since we got here. We are in the deep rurals and everyone does their own thing, but the villagers do give us general jobs and we get a plate of food in return. Not every one of us gets the job, so if I work today, another guy will work when there is another job in order for them to get food. The Daily Dispatch visited the workers this week in their dark, cold temporary home a back room at one of the houses near the construction site.More than 10 men are crammed in one room every night. There is only one bed and the others have to sleep on the floor with just one blanket.The last time they had a decent meal was last Saturday at a traditional ceremony.Nkuna said he was not responsible for the workers as they were subcontractors doing work on behalf of his company. The workers get paid for the work done and now they can t get paid because of the delays caused by the department of human settlements. You can t go to work and not have means of supporting yourself. They should have had a way to sustain themselves, Nkuna said.Amahlathi local municipality councillor Robert Desi said the houses were being built for the poor families in Ward 12. Though the project was going to benefit my people, I haven t done much to assist the workers. It wasn t my decision to have them here &#8230; The person who brought them here should make sure they eat, he said.Human settlements spokesman Lwandile Sicwetsha said the contractor was told they could not start with construction prior to enrolment date , but chose to go ahead. The department is complying with NHBRC processes as there are certain requirements to be met &#8230; Once enrolled, the site will be handed over and the construction will begin. We anticipate the enrolment to be done by July 31. sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za