Two people were arrested, allegedly in possession of drugs with an estimated street value of R1.2-million, in Amalinda yesterday. The pair, a 40-year-old man and his 25-year-old girlfriend, were arrested at their Coetzee Street home by Mdantsane police.Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said the two were allegedly found with 70g of cocaine and 6.6kg of crystal methamphetamine. They are both due to appear in the East London Magistrate s Court soon on charges of dealing in drugs and possession of stolen goods. Mzuku said the drugs found by police had a combined estimated street value of R1.2-million .Police also found an undisclosed amount of cash. We further seized seven cellphones and a digital camera. The operation forms part of SAPS initiatives to rid the communities we serve of the scourge of drugs and [their] manifestations, said Mzuku.lIn a separate case, members of the King William s Town police K9 unit arrested a 25-year-old man on Wednesday in the centre of the town after 30 Mandrax tablets and an undisclosed amount of money were allegedly found in his possession.King William s Town police spokeswoman Captain Siphokazi Mawisa said the suspect would appear in the King William s Town Magistrate s Court today on dealing in drugs charges.lOn Saturday, Mdantsane police arrested three people aged 23, 35 and 36 believed to be in possession of stolen goods and drugs following a business robbery in Mdantsane last Friday night.Mdantsane police spokesman Captain Mzuku said police also recovered clothing suspected to have been stolen during armed robberies at four leading clothing stores in East London a few days before. Police searched the premises in NU1 and further confiscated eight Mandrax tablets. The suspects were due to appear in the Mdantsane Magistrate s Court. Mzuku said: We would like to thank the public for continuing to entrust us with this huge responsibility of fighting crime. Our partnership is growing from strength to strength. We are determined to fight crime together. malibongwed@dispatch.co.za