Walter Sisulu University s Mthatha and Butterworth campuses have become notorious for violent behaviour among some students, who are assaulting and even killing each other over petty issues. The culture of violence has been highlighted in the latest case, following the killing of a student.Five students accused of killing Walter University (WSU) student Lwando Mantshontsho, who was in his sixth year of medical studies, were denied bail in the Mthatha Magistrate s Court yesterday.The students, aged between 20 and 23, appeared before magistrate Thukela MacPauzin. They are facing charges of murder, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and malicious damage to property.The accused are Sindile Kango, 21, a first-year economics student; third-year medical student Yamkela Mxokozeli, 23; fourth-year medical student, Siphesihle Mafungwa, 21; third-year education student Philani Danca, 23; and first-year medical student Lwakhe Matakane, 20.Mthatha police spokeswoman Captain Koena Dineo said three of the accused were handed over to police by their lawyers on Saturday and the other two handed themselves over on Sunday afternoon.The case was postponed to May 24. The student cultural officer at WSU Mthatha campus, Mzingisi Faku, who earlier this year was rushed to hospital after he was attacked and stabbed by group of students during political infighting, said the university was failing to address social issues, and, this was why violent incidents were occurring on campus. Faku said the university must do more in terms of ensuring the safety of students. There is no counselling offered to students, and there aren t any motivational talks or any awareness programmes to help students adapt to the lifestyle, he said. We come from different backgrounds and don t necessarily know each other s pasts or problems, he said, adding that alcohol was a major factor in the violence.In recent years six students have been killed, mostly by being stabbed by fellow students.Violence erupted in 2010, when a 25-year old student was stabbed to death at the university s Bika campus in Butterworth during a scuffle with another student.In 2014, students Sandiso Mfihlo and Anda Mhaga died after they were stabbed by fellow students on the campus in separate incidents.Mfihlo died after being stabbed in the neck in April at the same campus during the Pan Africanist Student Movement of Azania s election victory celebration.Five months later, Mhaga, 21, and a social science student, was allegedly stabbed to death by a fellow- student at KGB residence in Mthatha after trying to stop a fight between two other students when one of the brawlers turned on him.This year members of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) at the Nelson Mandela Drive campus were accused of assaulting and even stabbing members of the SA Students Organisation (Sasco).Three Sasco members, including former SRC president and Sasco member Sinelizwi Mgontshongo, were attacked.Mgontshongo spent three days in hospital after he was stabbed in his back on March 11, allegedly by members of the ANCYL.A fellow Sasco member, Lungile Gwala, was also assaulted and left with swollen eyes. An SRC and Sasco member as well, Faku was rushed to hospital after allegedly being attacked by a group of ANCYL members. Students suspected of assaulting or killing each other should be suspended while the investigation is still underway and dismissed if found guilty, SRC publicity officer Mxolisi Zoko said.WSU vice-chancellor Professor Rob Midgley said the violence in which students displayed intolerance and disagreement was a major concern. I have requested management and senate to find ways in which we can address such unacceptable behaviour, he said.In March this year, Midgley instructed a committee that would strategise on how to resolve a culture of violence which had been growing over the years. This is a mammoth task because it is not easy to change culture. Our university is a microcosm of our society and mirrors what is happening within our communities. In an effort to address burning issues such as a culture of transformation, political intolerance, curriculum reform and de-colonised education, WSU Conversations was launched. We cannot allow such behaviour to go on any longer. Our core business is to educate students and we want them to focus on their studies and engage us on issues that improve their living and learning at WSU, Midgley said.