Overcoming the adversities of growing up in a tiny one-room shack in Dimbaza s Phola Park is what pushed Anele George to strive for a better future. The 25-year-old recently earned a bachelor s degree in education from the University of Pretoria.George graduated last week and like many other graduates he took a picture of himself in his graduation attire and posted it on Facebook.However, George s picture was different there was no red-carpet, glitz and glamour, but a picture of himself and his mother, Nobendiba George, in front of their small shack of corrugated iron.Speaking to the Daily Dispatch yesterday, George said the picture was taken a few days before he was capped. I could not afford to take my mother to the actual graduation so while I was at home I decided to put on my hired gown and take a picture with her. And for me that felt like my actual graduation, said George.The picture has since gone viral and yesterday it had garnered more 10000 shares, 40000 likes and more 4000 Facebook users commenting.George said growing up, education became his only hope out of poverty. We had nothing. My mother was unemployed and my father had left. The only food we had was a loaf of brown bread that was given to children from poor backgrounds at school. There were days that we slept on empty stomachs, said George.The young graduate shares the shack with his mother and his older brother.After passing matric in 2011, George said he went to search for his father in Johannesburg, hoping he would be able to assist him financially with his dream of studying further to become a teacher.However, his hopes were dashed when he learnt his father was not keen to help him. I found my father but he was not interested in helping me but I didn t lose hope because I left home in search for a better life for me and those I left behind and giving up was not an option. George worked as a cashier at a popular fast food outlet and was able to send a little bit of money home.In 2013 he applied to study education at the University of Pretoria and was fortunate to secure a government-funded bursary.Today George teaches mathematics, economics and creative arts to Grade 8 and 9 pupils at Phillip Mtywaku Senior Secondary School in Peelton, where he works as a permanent teacher. The first thing that I want to do is to buy my mother a house, said George.