The Port St Johns man accused of slaughtering and dismembering a four-year-old boy and eating parts of his body yesterday told a magistrate he only wanted to be sentenced and serve his term. Mandisi Gwanya, 30, said he was pleading guilty on all charges.Gwanya is charged with killing his nephew Kamvelihile Ngala in KwaNtsila village three weeks ago.He was not asked to plead, and was requested by the magistrate to reconsider his decision not to have a legal representative. I plead guilty to all the charges pressed against me, Gwanya said. I do not want lawyers and also do not want bail. I am guilty as charged. I have no confidence in lawyers and, also, there is absolutely no need of one in this matter. Gwanya was wearing navy tracksuit bottoms and a torn brown T-shirt.Earlier, hundred pupils from the Roman Catholic Junior Secondary School marched in the streets calling for no bail.The crowd doubled in size when they were joined by ANC and UDM members and other residents.Port St Johns councillors and pupils from the Port St Johns High also joined the throng of people.Port St Johns public safety portfolio head Cebisa Mazuza read out the memorandum before handing it to magistrate Songezo Dotwana.It contained 450 signatures, including that of Gwanya s mother. As the community of Port St Johns we are urging justice to take its course for the brutal killing of young Kamvelihle Ngala. We demand that bail be denied. Granting bail is a translation of the lawlessness of our country. The courts must convey a meaningful message by not granting bail to ruthless, notorious, cruel and merciless killers, the memorandum read.The memorandum further stated that the accused was a threat to the community and the community might be tempted to take law into into their own hands.Pupils in the march said they were afraid of the accused. He will eat us all. We hope the magistrates and judges will do what is right to protect us, a young Luniko Sithethi said.Magistrate John Govender insisted Gwanya must have a legal representative but Gwanya kept refusing.Gwanya appeared not to be on the same wavelength as the court.When asked if he had parents, he said: Previously I knew I had a mom, but I am not sure any more .Due to the seriousness of the case, the magistrate ordered that he be represented by a Legal Aid lawyer. This is not just murder, there are allegations of slaughtering a young boy. This is very very serious and the allegation have caused a public outcry and drawn the attention of the national media and the interest of the public, Govender said.The case was postponed to May 30 for further investigation and the accused was remanded in custody.