The body of an unidentified woman was found floating in the Kariega River in Kenton-on-Sea on Saturday. National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) spokesman Craig Lambinon said a crew had been alerted at 7.39am by police to a suspected drowning in progress. The sea rescue craft Rescue 11 Alpha was joined at the scene by a police K9 search-and-rescue squad and ambulance services. “We launched our sea rescue craft and recovered the body of a female from the river.” The body was taken by forensic pathology services. Police have opened an inquest docket. “Butterworth cluster commander Brigadier Trevor Mey thanked the community for their assistance in apprehending the suspect,” Manatha said. He is due to appear in the Willowvale Magistrate’s Court today. Willowvale police are also investigating the alleged rape of an 18-year-old student from Mevena Village which reportedly took place on Saturday night. Manatha said the student was on her way from a study group at around 9pm when she was chased by the suspect who was armed with a handgun. He then caught her and raped her, and is still at large, said Manatha. “Police are appealing to parents to assist their children with transport after hours and during weekends to avoid children being victimised,” Manatha said. Police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said a youth, 22, was found in Cambridge Location with a pistol with its serial number filed off, as well as 21 rounds. In Amalinda, police arrested two robbery suspects and a 23-year-old evading a warrant of arrest. “Ten second-hand shops were visited to check for compliance with the Second-hand Goods Act. Some shops are not following lawful guidelines when buying items from their private clients. This creates a market for suspects to continue in criminal activities and sell stolen goods,” Mzuku said. — zisandan@dispatch.co.za The body of an unidentified woman was found floating in the Kariega River in Kenton-on-Sea on Saturday. National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) spokesman Craig Lambinon said a crew had been alerted at 7.39am by police to a suspected drowning in progress. The sea rescue craft Rescue 11 Alpha was joined… October 30, 2017 In "News" A man and a teenager drowned while another teen is missing, feared drowned, at Eastern Cape beaches after New Year’s Day celebrations, which otherwise went off peacefully in and around East London. The drowning incidents occurred near Peddie and in Port Alfred and Port Elizabeth. Further afield, two drownings were… January 4, 2016 In "Metro" An early morning fishing trip turned into a tragedy when a 30-year-old man apparently fell from Morgan Bay’s dolerite crags and was found dead in the ocean on Saturday morning. National Sea Rescue Services (NSRI) East London commander Geoff McGregor said his station, the Eastern Cape emergency services (EMS) rescue helicopter… October 17, 2016 In "News"