The Democratic Alliance in Nelson Mandela Bay Metro has now pinned its hopes on Julius Malema’s Economic Freedom Fighters to revive the coalition of minority parties in the Port Elizabeth-based council. The Daily Dispatch can reveal that the party invited EFF big guns Godrich Gardee, Floyd Shivambu and EFF councillors Yoliswa Yako, Lukhanyo Mrara and Zilindile Vena to a meeting two weeks ago. This follows the collapse of relations between the DA and the United Democratic Movement after a decision to fire UDM councillor Mongameli Bobani as deputy mayor two months ago. The UDM did not take kindly to this and the party is now challenging Bobani’s axing in court. Sources with knowledge of the meeting said that the DA had approached the EFF to assist in making the city work. No decisions were taken at the meeting, but it was resolved that the EFF’s national leadership would meet to discuss it further. In the council, the DA has 57 councillors, EFF six and the UDM two, while COPE, the ACDP, UF, AIC and Patriotic Alliance have one each. The ANC has 50. The DA’s woes in council worsened after another opposition party in coalition with them, the Patriotic Alliance, withdrew from the coalition. A council meeting had to be postponed because a quorum could not be reached after opposition parties failed to pitch. Trollip said the DA-led administration in NMB metro had been in government for 13 months and has achieved incredible results. He quoted the latest business tech report which stated that the PE-based metro was ranked third out of all metros in the country. “[We] went from being second least trusted to second most trusted after Cape Town. “Anyone with eyes that want to see will acknowledge great advances and considerable change in this metro under our coalition.” Contacted yesterday Shivambu said there was nothing to report. — simthandilef@dispatch.co.za Danny Jordaan could keep his job as mayor. HeraldLIVE reported that crucial coalition announcements to be made on Wednesday could see Thursday’s council meeting ushering in a new era for Nelson Mandela Bay with a completely new government‚ or it could see the old guard back in City Hall –… August 17, 2016 In "Politics" The Democratic Alliance maintains it is ready to deal with the “consequences” of not reinstating ousted United Democratic Movement deputy mayor of Nelson Mandela metro Mongameli Bobani. This comes after UDM leader Bantu Holomisa threatened to walk out of the Nelson Mandela Bay coalition if the DA did not reinstate… August 26, 2017 In "News" By ZINE GEORGE and SIMTHANDILE FORD The ANC wants cooperative governance and traditional affairs MEC Fikile Xasa to take over the running of the troubled Nelson Mandela Metro. The call comes a week after the Democratic Alliance-led council removed the UDM’s Mongameli Bobani as deputy mayor. Reacting to the call,… August 31, 2017 In "Featured"