While farmers and drought-stricken municipalities welcomed much needed rain this week in the Eastern Cape, residents of an informal settlement in Hani Park in Mdantsane were counting their losses as water flooded their shacks overnight. When the Daily Dispatch visited the informal settlement yesterday, residents were in a frenzy, salvaging furniture and the few belongings that had not been damaged by the heavy rain. Water filled the shacks, damaging furniture and appliances in the process. Behind the shacks, water gathered in a large pool, forming a stream, and turning the entire settlement into a wetland. Residents said when they called their ward councillor, Nomonde Moyikwa, and told her of their plight, she called them “cry babies”. Ntombikayise Nolawo’s four-roomed shack was covered in water. She stood knee-deep in water as her furniture and appliances floated around her. “My kitchen cupboards are covered in water and my belongings are scattered all over. “The bed and couches are all drenched,” she said. She shares her shack with six other people. Noluthando Magalela, who lives with her mentally challenged sister and her children, said when they woke up the shack resembled a dam. “Everything was flooded. My TV, my cupboards, my fridge and couches were all damaged. “Even now we can’t go in because it’s a mess inside. “We don’t know where we’ll be sleeping tonight because of this rain, and it looks like it’s still going to continue.” Moyikwa told the Dispatch she did not initially believe the situation was as bad as the residents described it to be, but what she saw “was terrible and tragic”. “I met with community members [yesterday]. We will be trying to move them because their conditions are terrible. “I have asked them to give me a list of their names so I can try to get help for them from disaster management,” she said. The residents are beneficiaries of RDP houses that were built in Hani Park, but they are still in shacks while the houses are being built. A short distance from the shacks are four foundations for RDP homes which have been at knee level since 2014. Moyikwa said: “We will prioritise the residents in the shacks because of their living conditions.” — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za Flood victims temporarily accommodated in local halls, churches. HUNDREDS of residents living in informal settlements across Buffalo City Metro were left homeless yesterday by heavy rains which flooded shacks across the city. In Duncan Village more than 200 people including children under the age of two were crammed into a… April 25, 2014 In "Metro" AT LEAST eight people died and hundreds were left homeless as floods ravaged East London and Transkei yesterday. Roads from Mthatha to Port St Johns and to Dutywa were closed late yesterday and power was cut off in Mthatha. The mayor of Port St Johns, Mnyamezeli Mangqo, told the Daily… April 22, 2013 In "News" RESIDENTS from Duncan Village, Mzamomhle near Gonubie and Ilitha township near King William’s Town were the worst affected by the heavy rains at the weekend . In Mzamomhle Nontathu Bota and her mother and three children had to flee their shack after it was flooded. “We managed to save our… April 23, 2013 In "News"