The two farm workers who filmed themselves forcing Victor Mlotshwa into a coffin will each spend more than a decade behind bars. Twenty-nine-year-old Willem Oosthuizen was sentenced to a total of 16 years behind bars‚ five of which were suspended. This will result in him spending 11 years behind bars. Thirty-year-old Theo Jackson was sentenced to 19 years‚ five of which have been suspended. This would result in him spending 14 years behind bars. In August the pair were found guilty of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm‚ attempted murder‚ intimidation and kidnapping. Jackson faced another charge of defeating the ends of justice after he burnt the coffin‚ which would have been used as evidence. Delivering her sentencing in the High Court sitting in Middelburg‚ Judge Segopotje Mphahlele described the crimes as appalling‚ disgusting and dehumanising. Oosthuizen and Jackson had maintained they had done nothing wrong and defended the assault by accusing Mlotshwa of stealing copper cables. However‚ Mlotshwa said they had suddenly attacked him as he waited to hitch hike to town.
He claimed to have beaten with a knobkerrie as his assailants threatened to burn him alive. -TimesLIVE Two men have been sentenced to prison terms of more than 10 years each for abducting Victor Mlotshwa and forcing him into a coffin. Theo Martins Jackson and Willem Oosthuizen were convicted in August on charges of attempted murder‚ assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and kidnapping. Oosthuizen… October 27, 2017 In "Featured" Victor Mlotshwa‚ who was filmed begging for his life as he was forced into a coffin in Middelburg‚ Mpumalanga‚ last year‚ wants his attackers to spend at least 15 years behind bars‚ the High Court sitting in Middelburg heard on Friday. This was according to a social worker who had… October 23, 2017 In "Featured" Three witnesses are expected to testify in the Middelburg High Court during the sentencing proceedings of two farm workers convicted of trying to kill Middelburg resident Victor Mlotshwa. The witnesses are Mlotshwa‚ Human Rights Commissioner Johannes Sibanyoni‚ and a social worker. It was not immediately clear whether Judge Segopotje Mphahlele… October 23, 2017 In "News"