Criminal charges against the Eastern Cape woman who allegedly stabbed her daughter’s alleged rapists were withdrawn on Monday. Thousands filled the Lady Frere Magistrate’s Court to capacity to hear magistrate Bala Mhlanga withdrawing murder and attempted murder charges against the woman, dubbed Lion Mama. Mhlanga withdrew the case after prosecutor Fikile Seti said the director of public prosecution had informed him that the case is being withdrawn. The woman, who cannot be named to protect her 27 year-old daughter who is an alleged rape victim, stabbed to death on of the alleged rapists and wounded two other after she allegedly caught them gang raping her daughter. Soon after she was told the charges against her would not be pursued, she thanked scores of people, which included politicians from OR Tambo, Nelson Mandela Bay, Amathole, Alfred Nzo and local municipalities around the Chris Hani District Municipality, at a community hall. “I felt like an old baboon which has no friends, but today you showed me that I have people. Thank you for the support,” she said. The case against the woman made national headlines with people donating over R130 000 towards her legal costs. This was after Cape Town resident Natalie Kendrick read the story of the woman on the Daily Dispatch Twitter page and called on citizens to contribute towards the mother’s legal costs. Patrick Godana of Sonke Gender Justice said they came all the way from Cape Town to support the woman. “I am happy of the decision taken by the DPP as it shows that there justice system saw no need to prosecute the woman,” he said. Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi said they are happy as the department that the charges against the woman have been withdrawn. Sihlwayi said they are happy that the justice system saw no need to prosecute the woman and she still regards her as her hero. “We need to campaign against any sort of abuse against women, because the mother is the only victim in this case. The raped daughter, family and the community are all victims of this crime. “She did all she could just to protect her child and did not mean to kill one of the perpetrators,” she said. The woman’s attorney Buhle Tonise said the money raised for the woman is meant for her wellbeing. “She still needs to go for trauma counselling for her and her daughter. We have transferred the money that was paid to us to her for her wellbeing,” she said. She said the R140 000 will be used for the trauma counselling and also help her build a house. “She said she wants a fence and also have another room for her daughter. She also asked for assistance with her money as she has never had that amount of money. She wants assistance on how to save the money so that it lasts longer,” she said.   All charges against three former Selborne pupils charged with attempted murder in the infamous Tiger Tiger nightclub incident last year were dropped yesterday. The headline-grabbing case was withdrawn in the Wynberg Magistrates Court in the afternoon. Mitchell Turner, 20, Chad de Matos, 19, and Aaron Mack, 20, were arrested in… June 26, 2015 In "News" All charges against three young East London men charged with attempted murder in the infamous Tiger Tiger nightclub incident last year were dropped today. The headline-grabbing case was withdrawn at the Wynberg Magistrates Court today afternoon.  Mitchell Turner, 20, Chad de Matos, 19, and Aaron Mack, 20, were arrested in… June 25, 2015 In "News" Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi, with the departments officials, visited the home of the 56-year-old Qumbu village woman in Zwartwater, near Queenstown, who allegedly stabbed and killed one of her daughter's three alleged rapists and wounding two on Wednesday. Sihlwayi’s reason for the visit is to try and calm the… September 13, 2017 In "News"