The Supreme Court of Appeal will on Friday hand down judgment in the application for leave to appeal by President Jacob Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority in relation to the 783 corruption charges against Zuma. Zuma and the NPA approached the court seeking to have a Pretoria High Court judgment — which held that the charges be reinstated — overturned. However‚ at the 11th hour‚ during arguments at the SCA in September‚ Zuma conceded that the original decision to withdraw the charges had been irrational‚ as the high court had ruled. However‚ Zuma wanted the opportunity to make new representations before the NPA decided to recharge him. This would leave the decision in the hands of NPA boss Shaun Abrahams‚ who is seen to be protecting Zuma. The decision to drop the corruption charges against Zuma was taken in April 2009 by then acting national director of public prosecutions Mokotedi Mpshe. The decision was based on what became known as the spy tapes — recordings and telephone conversations that apparently showed political interference in the decision to charge Zuma. The day after Mpshe’s announcement‚ the charges were withdrawn against Zuma in the High Court in Durban. In 2010‚ Zuma was sworn in as president of the country. Six years later in April 2016‚ the High Court in Pretoria ruled that the NPA should reinstate the 783 counts against Zuma. – BusinessLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. President Jacob Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) have two days to convince the Supreme Court of Appeal that they have the right to challenge a previous court decision around corruption charges against the president. The DA has been fighting for more than eight years to get Zuma to… September 14, 2017 In "Politics" President Jacob Zuma has made an 11th-hour concession that the decision to withdraw the more than 700 corruption charges against him was irrational. The decision was taken in 2009 by then NPA head Mokotedi Mpshe. Kemp J Kemp for Zuma made the concession in the Supreme Court of Appeal on… September 14, 2017 In "Politics" PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma was yesterday granted leave to appeal the judgment of the North Gauteng High Court passed last month‚ which had ordered the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to hand over the reduced record of decision‚ including the spy tapes‚ to the DA. The DA sought the record of decision… September 6, 2013 In "News"