One of five men accused of viciously torturing and murdering a Grahamstown man they believed had stolen the laptop of a prominent former Rhodes student, writer and activist was today sentenced to 18 years imprisonment.  Siviwe Gqotholo, 30, hung his head as Grahamstown High Court Judge John Smith described the torture and murder of Thembelani Qwankanisa, 29, as brutal and callous in the extreme. In his plea statement last month Gqotholo gave a graphic account of how he and four other men had last year over a prolonged period repeatedly beaten, burnt, and stabbed Qwankanisa, and poured boiling water down his throat to get him to confess to stealing the laptop of then third-year Rhodes student and citizen journalist Thembani Onceya. Onceya, his two brothers Akhona, and Simamkele, and another friend Mzwanele Maki have pleaded not guilty to murdering Qwankanisa. They remain in jail pending their trial after being denied bail. Their trial was separated from that of Gqotholo as he opted to plead guilty to his role in the brutal murder. Qwankanisa’s ravaged body was found wrapped in a carpet and dumped in a local community dam. Smith said this type of violent and cruel crime came before the courts with alarming frequency and society expected courts to impose sentences which reflects its abhorrence with such violent conduct. During the torture Qwankanisa’s teeth were also pulled out with pliers, he had been burnt with melted plastic and his genitals had been stapled. The Grahamstown community was outraged by the way in which Qwankanisa had been murdered and dumped in a local community dam. Senior state advocate Heinz Obermeyer prosecuted while attorney Templeton Solani defended Gqotholo. The trial of the other four men will begin on December 4. The Rhodes University student alleged to be the mastermind behind the brutal torture and murder of a man he suspected of stealing his laptop, appeared briefly in a Grahamstown court today with his four co-accused. Thembani Onceya, 29, his brothers, Akhona and Simakele, and friends Sizwe Gqotholo and Mzwanele Maki… January 23, 2017 In "News" A Rhodes University #feesmustfall activist and four other men accused of the brutal murder of a Grahamstown man will have to wait until Monday to make a formal bail application. Well-known poet and community activist Thembani "Zion Eyes" Onceya, 28,  is a third-year  Bachelor of Arts student, his two brothers… October 19, 2016 In "Featured" A Rhodes University student at the forefront of the #FeesMustFall campaign on campus appeared briefly in the Grahamstown Magistrate’s Court yesterday on a murder charge. Well-known poet and theatre personality Thembani Onceya was arrested on Monday when he handed himself over to police investigating the death of a 29-year-old man… October 13, 2016 In "Featured"