Twenty-five mostly young creatives in Buffalo City Metro received entrepreneurship competency awards yesterday. They had studied a short course on how to do business in the arts, cultural and creative industry. The project was developed by the arts incubation programme which is spearheaded by the Tshwane University of Technology, in partnership with the National Arts Council (NAC). It is being piloted in BCM. Artists tend to lack business and financial skills, said programme coordinator Patrick Ebewu. Some of the beneficiaries were elderly men and women who were brushing up on how to manage their finances and grow their businesses. Nolubabalo Mnwana, 29, from Mdantsane said: “I’m a singer and I sew. Many people know me for my music. I recently discovered my love for sewing when I got married.” The course had taught her “a lot especially on the business side and will help me when I am ready to start my own business”. The artists are involved in fashion design, sewing, singing, drawing, visual arts and music. Akhona Nono, 29, also known as DJ Jigga from Mdantsane, said: “This programme has opened so many doors for me. There were a lot of things in the business sector that we were not aware of before attending the classes. I feel able now to go to big companies and tell them what I need and how I need it. We are now able to see gaps within the market,” he said. Since taking the course, Nono started his own marketing and promotions company. Fashion designer Nomfuneko Kenyane said: “My designs are classic yet edgy. My areas of specialisation are leather and beads. During this training I have learnt business and presentation skills. “I was in Standard 5 when I started sewing as I did needlework at school. That is where it all started. Fashion design has always been my first choice. Kenyane travels to Johannesburg next week for a mentorship programme with Thula Sindi. Participants were recruited from the Mdantsane, Duncan Village and King William’s Town art centres. National Arts Council representative Dumisani Dlamini said: “If artists can acquire necessary (business) skills, they can make opportunities for themselves.” Andile Sawule, chairman in BCM of Culture and Creative Federations of South Africa, said: “We mobilised the artists by hosting an information session. Those who were awarded today are being linked with funding organisations”. Dlamini said: “This initiative is in place to support arts and culture development across the country and to provide entrepreneurial skills programmes that will focus on arts.” — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za SCIENCE and Technology Minister Derek Hanekom said an ambitious national project to replace textbooks with e-texts, being piloted in Cofimvaba, Transkei, was at an advanced stage with 3 000 electronic tablets in action. In an exclusive interview with the Daily Dispatch between his main address and a breakaway meeting at… May 29, 2013 In "News" Fifty disadvantaged, elderly or disabled shack residents will in three months time receive RDP houses built by   local youths. This is courtesy of a youth development   programme which will see 50 young people from Mdantsane’s NU9 trained as builders. The programme, a joint initiative by Buffalo City Metro and the… July 1, 2015 In "News" Global Forum to pump cash into local economy A TORRENT of ideas, entrepreneurship, cash and extra work floods into Buffalo City Metro (BCM) this week when the East London IDZ and all spheres of the South African government host 900 international innovators, investors, entrepreneurs and policy-makers at the fifth Global… May 27, 2013 In "News"