Heavily armed security personnel manned the entrance to Maritzburg College in Pietermaritzburg on Monday after three pupils got into trouble for posting a photo appearing to support EFF policies. The department of education was on Monday locked in a meeting with the school management and the governing body. The pupils posted a photo online in which one is holding a T-shirt bearing the handwritten words: “EFF our last hope of getting our land back.” TimesLIVE was prevented from gaining access to the school. School governing body member Doug Mundell and his personal assistant Sue Calmeyer came to the school gate and said the SGB chair would issue a statement and that the principal‚ as per the Schools Act‚ was not allowed to interact with the media. They confirmed that the boys were still at the school but that‚ like all other matriculants‚ they are on study leave. Asked if they had gauged the mood among parents on the issue‚ Mundell said they will know after the meeting.
They would not comment further. Pierre Bruwer‚ the head of the private security company‚ said they were there as a precautionary measure. He would not comment further. Maritzburg College‚ a public school for boys‚ planned to discipline the three pupils for posing in school uniform for a picture in which they are shown holding T-shirts with pro-EFF slogans on October 21. The picture‚ which went viral on Friday‚ has raised questions about racism‚ freedom of expression and what old boy Kevin Pietersen‚ the former England cricketer‚ described as “total disrespect for a once-great school”. The elite school has since faced a backlash over the disciplinary charges. The boys face charges that include breaching provisions of the SA Schools Act. They might also have breached school policies. -TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education has announced it will launch a full scale investigation into claims of racism at Pietermaritzburg College. It said it had received a number of allegations relating to racism which could be a reason for learners to retaliate in a certain manner. Three pupils at the… October 14, 2017 In "News" The Department of Education could find itself in hot water if it is found that a security guard accused of sexually assaulting 54 primary school learners in Soweto does not have the qualifications needed for the job. The Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority said it was trying to establish whether… October 12, 2017 In "News" A highly successful ninth Kearsney Easter Rugby Festival wrapped up with two Dale College players receiving bursaries to the Sharks Academy for 2017. Dale College players, fullback Aphelele Fassi and centre Sibulele Mbana as well as Glenwood prop Renier van Rooyen were awarded bursaries that included a contract with the… March 30, 2016 In "Sport"