The community of Eldorado Park say marginalisation and the lack of service delivery are the underyling factors that have led to the recent unrest at Klipspruit West High School. They blame the department of human settlements for its failure to deliver its promise on providing houses to the community. The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) is conducting hearings in Eldorado Park to investigate the unrest in the area and the disruptions at the school. Speaking on the first day of the hearings on Tuesday‚ Greater Eldorado Business Forum chairperson Charis Pretorius said the protests in the community stemmed from the lack of service delivery and had nothing to do with racism. “Racism seems to be the card people are using‚ but it is not the problem. “The reason for the protests at Klipspruit West is because certain processes were not followed in hiring a principal. The department hired a principal who had not been at the school‚” she said. She said the protests at the school were an “extreme” measure to get attention from the government. “In order to address the powers that be‚ extreme measures had to be taken.” “We have been marginalised and we don’t know where we belong. We are getting very little support from government‚” said Pretorius. Wiseman Hamilton of the Greater Eldorado Park United Civic said poverty‚ crime‚ drug abuse and a sense of being “left out” by government were the root cause of the unrest in the area. “Racism is not the underlying issue here. Coloured communities are suffering from marginalisation. The ANC government is favouring one group over another.” – TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) will from Tuesday be holding hearings to investigate the unrest in Eldorado Park and the disruptions at Klipspruit West High School. On Tuesday and Wednesday‚ the hearings will take place at the JD Opperman Hall in Eldorado Park and at the City of… October 10, 2017 In "News" Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said he is expecting teaching to resume at Klipspruit West High School on Tuesday. “I am expecting teaching to resume today [Tuesday]. The four teachers who were barred at the school‚ should be allowed to go back‚” Lesufi said in an interview with Radio 702… September 26, 2017 In "News" Residents in Klipspruit‚ Johannesburg‚ hijacked a Putco bus and set it alight during a protest on Thursday morning. A video of the burning bus was uploaded on Twitter. https://twitter.com/nxumalo4/status/892982334831677440 The residents are believed to be protesting against the department of education for its failure to hire a principal at Klipspruit… August 3, 2017 In "News"