Western Cape police have denied that 10 suspects who were arrested and later released without being charged were made to lie on the ground for hours while waiting for Police Minister Fikile Mbalula to arrive. Police also denied allegations that the suspects‚ who were arrested outside the Huguenot tunnel and Laingsburg‚ were tortured or assaulted while being questioned. They also said that at no stage was Mbalula involved in the interviewing process. Saying police wished to set the record straight‚ spokesperson Brigadier Novela Potelwa said the operations in question were intelligence-led‚ multidisciplinary SAPS vehicle checkpoints. “As it would be the case in similar operations‚ the suspects were subdued in an effort to search and minimise risk. They were subsequently transported to Cape Town Central police station where they were interviewed by detectives. At no stage was the Minister of Police involved in the interviewing process as that is an operational exercise reserved for SAPS members. It is also devoid of truth that the suspects were made to lie on the ground for hours while waiting for the Minister of Police to arrive. The Minister‚ who had been in Cape Town during the week‚ visited operations including the one outside the Huguenot tunnel on Friday evening 06 October 2017. “The ‘arrests’ in question were lawfully executed in terms of Section 40 (1)(b) of the Criminal Procedure Act 51 of 1977 and SAPS Standing Order (G) 341 which give authority for any person who is reasonably suspected of having committed a Schedule 1 offence to be arrested. The suspects were interviewed within the prescribed period stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Act‚ which is 48 hours. They were subsequently released on Sunday‚ 08 October 2017. This office further wishes to refute allegations of torture and assault during the period the suspects were being questioned‚” Potelwa said in a statement. She added: “The Provincial SAPS wishes to reiterate its commitment to fighting serious and violent crimes in the Western Cape hence our members are still hard at work pursuing leads that could lead to the arrest of those who carried out the murders in Marikana.”   Police minister Fikile Mbalula has urged officers to continue to “harass” criminals, and denied wrongfully arresting eight men on their way to a funeral and illegally searching their coffin and corpse. His call came after The Times reported how Mbalula posted images of eight men – arrested in connection with… October 14, 2017 In "Featured" Even by Mbalulian standards‚ it’s out there. The story‚ reported by The Times‚ reads like a Borat sketch featuring a B-list‚ C-grade politician and wannabe celebrity from a distant Banana Republic: ten innocent people en route to a funeral in the Eastern Cape‚ tied up by police and forced to… October 13, 2017 In "Politics" The four men who were arrested for assaulting a couple at a KFC outlet in Pretoria on Wednesday evening will face charges of assault and pointing a firearm. Police spokesman Capt Kay Makhubele said police were still searching for two other men who were involved in the assault. In terms… August 7, 2017 In "News"