Travelling long distances to see a radiographer is now a thing of the past for King William’s Town residents, as Xolisa Menemene, 33, has brought the service closer to them. Previously people had to travel almost 70km from King William’s Town to East London to see a radiographer. Port Elizabeth-born Menemene opened his practice on June 2 in Arthur Street near the Department of Labour building. This is his second practice, after having opened a practice at Ziyabuya Shopping Centre in KwaDwesi, Port Elizabeth. The PE Technikon alumni, now known as Nelson Mandela University, said he had noticed the gap in the market. To finance his first practice, he quit his job at Nompumelelo Hospital in Peddie and took a risk by using his retirement funds. He also received R600000 from the Small Enterprise Finance Agency. He paid R800000 from his own pocket to open the King William’s Town practice. “After doing studies of the X-ray market in the townships, it was visible that there is a problem in the process involving medical practitioners and referrals of X-ray services,” he said. Menemene said by opening his practice in King William’s Town, people could have early diagnoses done and thus detect and prevent many health conditions. “There are many doctors in King William’s Town but you will never see a radiographer,” he said, adding that his services were affordable. “We are bringing our services closer to the people. There is no need for them to go to East London when they need an X-ray.” The radiographer continues building great relationships with successful medical practitioners within the province. “Doctors are realising the efficiency of this practice and they continue referring great numbers of their patients to my practices,” he said. Menemene now employs four people – two radiographers and two receptionists at his two practices. Menemene said he had financial constraints as “the cost of putting an X-ray practice together cost millions in equipment and setting up a safe facility”. As part of his long-term plan, Menemene plans to buy his own properties to operate from, instead of renting. — zikhonam@
dispatch.co.za A thunderstorm with bright blasts of noise and lightning has rolled through Buffalo City Metro (BCM) dropping hail and sending down thick bursts of rain. The Port Elizabeth SA Weather Office warned of hail from King William's Town to the northern parts of East London and insurance corporations Discovery and Sanlam… September 12, 2016 In "Featured" More than 300 Eastern Cape pupils have still not been placed in a school – four months into the new year. However, the provincial department of education said this was a “far better picture” than at the beginning of the school year when more than 1000 parents were looking to… April 19, 2017 In "Politics" A line of storm cells blasting thunder and lightning, and dumping hail and squalls of rain, drifted down from Alice towards Mthatha yesterday. Skies darkened and the weather office and insurance companies sent out warnings of severe storms, urging residents to protect their assets. It took 90 minutes for the… September 13, 2016 In "Featured"