Following four months of closure, there is now some confusion around the Joan Harrison Swimming Complex’s tariff rates. Long-time critic of “The Joan”, swimming coach Joe Hillstrom, told the Daily Dispatch that when he asked about a pensioner’s season ticket, he was told by the complex manager to buy a coach’s pass. Hillstrom queried this, saying in previous years he had entered the aquatic centre with a pensioner’s pass. Buffalo City Metro says coach’s rates were there for a reason as they used the pools for an income and not leisure. Hillstrom said: “I wanted to buy a pensioner’s season ticket but the supervisor said that I can only have the coach’s season ticket as I am a swimming coach. “I then asked him to have a look at the ticket [which] allows one to use the swimming pool and the toilets. The coach’s ticket says nothing else and is not a licence – it is merely an entrance fee. “He said that he was going on orders that I must purchase the coach’s ticket,” he said. Hillstrom said last year he bought a pensioner’s ticket without any challenges. “When I tried to discuss the issue, I was told it was not open for discussion.” According to BCM, the current rates for the Joan Harrison are as follows: lSingle entrance tariffs for adults R14, while children aged three to 17 and pensioners pay R12; lSeasonal tariffs for adults: R466; lSeasonal tariffs for children and pensioners: R234 lHalf season tariffs for adults: R233; lHalf season tariffs for children and pensioners: R117; lSeason tickets for coaches/ trainers: R466 a lane with a maximum of two lanes per coach, or R71 a day. BCM spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond said: “The difference between coaching and pensioner rates is that a coach uses the complex for business purposes and it is done on the premises of the municipality, hence the different tariffs. The pensioner is an individual coming for his/ her leisure.” Hillstrom claims he was arrested by eight municipal policemen when he investigated about the tariffs. “If one goes back in the rates and tariffs, a coach used pay a nominal fee for their season ticket, which was R52 ,and the following season it was supposed to have gone up to R57, but it was pushed to R75 per day. “That is when I started investigating what was happening in the rates and tariffs. I have been harassed ever since then. I have been arrested by eight municipal policemen and taken to the charge office but no charges were ever laid and the harassment continues.” Border Biathlon provincial head Michael Forbes said they had opted not to use “The Joan” after experiencing inconsistencies in the past. “We decided to make use of other facilities due to the tardiness and unclear communication received from the complex,” he said. — oreillya@tisoblackstar.co.za Swimming enthusiasts can now make a splash – the Joan Harrison Swimming Complex finally opened its doors yesterday after being closed for more than three months during the autumn/winter period. Buffalo City Metro spokeswoman Bathandwa Diamond had promised earlier this month that the aquatics complex would resume services yesterday but,… October 17, 2017 In "News" Avid swimmers, coaches and regular visitors to the Joan Harrison Swimming Pool Complex were left frustrated after a notice from Buffalo City Metro (BCM) came about detailing reduced open times for the autumn period and yet another four-month outright closure in winter. BCM claimed they need to do maintenance, but… May 11, 2017 In "News" MUNICIPAL swimming pool boss Vikramjith “Vicky” Singh has been suspended amid allegations of systematic fraud. The action follows a raid on his office in October last year by the Hawks and Buffalo City Metro municipal manager Andile Fani. BCM spokesman Keith Ngesi confirmed that Singh was suspended and all criminal… January 10, 2014 In "Metro"