A senior Eastern Cape education manager has been suspended on a charge of soliciting a bribe in the presence of a bank teller.  This was after the suspect allegedly demanded and later received almost a quarter of the victim’s R960 00 pension payout. A video clip apparently shows the transaction. Education superintendent-general Themba Kojana confirmed yesterday the department was investigating allegations of fraud against the deputy director, who was put on precautionary suspension on October 9 “pending the internal investigation”. The victim, a disabled 32-year-old, is a former general worker at a Mbizana school for disabled pupils. He had been battling to get a pension payout for more than two years. He reported his case to the suspended official earlier this year. The official allegedly tracked down the fraud victim and informed him that his pension payout had been deposited into his bank account, and for that, he would have to pay her R20 000 for processing the claim. But relatives of the victim did not take kindly to that, and reported the incident to the district director concerned, using the newly established rapid incident report (RIR) hotline. But that was after the kickback had allegedly already been paid out to the suspect. The official, who is in her mid-40s and whose name is known to the Daily Dispatch, is a deputy director at the Alfred Nzo east district offices in KwaBhaca (Mount Ayliff). Kojana said the case was reported on September 29, and investigators who are based in the newly established RIR unit followed up on the case a week later and managed to source footage apparently confirming the official received a kickback. The investigators received another lead indicating that the R20000 payment was made at a local branch of a listed bank. “Our investigators have since acquired the video footage showing clearly that indeed the suspect was with the complainant when he made the withdrawal,” said Kojana. “We have since handed over the case to the Hawks for criminal investigation.” The clip, seen by the Dispatch, shows both the suspect and the victim seated in front of a bank teller. After signing the paperwork, the teller counts R30000, which is then divided in three batches of R10000. The video shows R10000 being given to the victim while R20000 is given to the government official. “The report we received stated the senior official asked the pensioner how much she will get in return for processing the pension payout. “The former employee offered to pay her R2000, and she laughed him off saying, ‘I’m not a child. I want R20000’,” said Kojana. “This line (RIR) is going to help us deal with corruption from all angles. This is just the tip of an iceberg.” lFor any leads on corruption, call 086-661-7947 or e-mail rir@ecdoe.gov.za The Hawks are investigating a fraud syndicate that has duped many Eastern Cape residents out of their hard-earned money. It is alleged members of the syndicate told victims their ancestors would bless them and double their money if they invested with the scheme. The Hawks said they were currently investigating… June 1, 2016 In "News" Four retired police officers who spent more than 100 years between them chasing criminals and dodging bullets are struggling to have their pension money released. The officers, from the Whittlesea police station near Queenstown, blamed the delays on police management but police say it is not their fault. Warrant Officers… November 5, 2014 In "Metro" Under fire First National Bank is embroiled in yet another scandal after a case was opened against a senior employee who allegedly leaked confidential client banking details to fraud suspects. The employee, whose name is known to the Dispatch, is based at their Retail Park branch in Beacon Bay, East… January 24, 2017 In "Featured"