Men who were publicly ridiculed on a controversial Facebook page which shone the spotlight on alleged deadbeat fathers can sue or even open crimen injuria charges against those who participated in shaming them on social media, said Justice Department spokesman Mthunzi Mhaga yesterday.  A popular social media page “Izinja Ezingondliyo” loosely translated “Dogs who don’t look after their children”, has sparked mixed reactions among South Africans. Faces of men who have allegedly neglected their fatherly duties by not paying maintenance support or visiting their offspring were splashed on the Facebook page, which within a week of being created had 113813 followers by yesterday. Their personal details have also been posted on the Facebook page. Men reacted by creating their Facebook post – Reasons Why Singondli (Reasons why we don’t look after our children). Among the excuses made by alleged deadbeat fathers was that some of the women allegedly use their child maintenance money to “beautify themselves” or “drink the money away” – leaving the child struggling. Reasons Why Singondli had 48272 followers by yesterday. But Mhaga told Saturday Dispatch it was illegal to degrade a person publicly. “When you are degrading the dignity and reputation of a person, that constitutes a criminal case and a civil claim can also ensue for that,” he said. Children’s rights were also sometimes trampled on as some of the posts violated the Children’s Act by naming minors. But Masimanye Women Support Group spokeswoman Lesley-Ann Foster, who said lack of support from men was a form of violence against women, also slammed the justice system for allegedly not supporting women enough. “Men are reneging on their responsibility … Part of what we need to do is revisit the laws to make sure men take 50% responsibility,” she said. “It is not helpful for women to address the challenge in the public domain,” she said, adding that everyone should “always operate within the ambits of the law”. TV personality Boity Thulo found herself as a trending topic on Saturday night, after a zoomed in picture of what seemed to be her private parts went viral shortly after she walked the Sama 2016 red carpet. A seething Boity has come out strongly against the picture which has been… June 6, 2016 In "News" A former East London resident has come under fire after she posted a racially charged comment on a popular Gonubie social media site. Facebook user Ann Stephen cautioned “Gonubie people” to “remember our own” when giving charitable handouts. “There are white squatter camps scattered around our beautiful country…when giving please… December 22, 2016 In "Featured" Wednesday marked the end of the annual 16 Days of Activism campaign aimed at bringing the plague of violence against women and children to a standstill. While words and social media hashtags are nice, actions carry weight. The reality is that we are failing to protect women and children from… December 11, 2014 In "News"