Buffalo City Metro has decided to end its contract with Nyoni Project, one of the construction companies appointed in August to tar roads in Mdantsane’s NU16. This was confirmed by infrastructure and engineering political boss Ncedo Kumbaca yesterday. The decision to terminate the multimillion-rand contract with the company comes after several warning letters to the company complaining about slow progress in tarring the streets. “Nyoni Projects, which is one of the three contractors appointed for Mdantsane internal was 10 months behind schedule. “City executives and Mdantsane councillors last week decided to terminate the contract with the contractor,” Kumbaca said. Last week the Daily Dispatch reported that residents were irate over the slow progress, saying instead of tarring the streets, Nyoni Project simply dug up the roads and disappeared, leaving the streets in a worse condition. Nyoni Projects could not be contacted at the time of writing yesterday, so it is not yet clear whether or not it plans to contest the termination. On its website, the Johannesburg-based Nyoni Projects states that it was appointed to “upgrade gravel roads to surfaced standards – Mdantsane culvert 1” to the value of R12-million, and for another project of “the upgrading of Mdantsane roads to surfaced standards – phase 3”, at an undisclosed amount. There have also been complaints about slow progress in completing roadworks in Oxford Street – a project that Kumbaca acknowledged had teething problems. “As for Oxford Street, a different contractor, Mvula, was appointed to do roadworks there. “There have been problems, but you can expect to see movement [today],” said Kumbaca. The road projects are part of the city’s plans to “turn the metro into a construction site”. On Sunday, BCM spokesman Samkelo Ngwenya said their “construction site campaign” was being intensified. In a statement, he said R6-million of R80-million set aside to rehabilitate existing roads in BCM was for Reeston township roads. “We are earmarking to spend R3-million for the maintenance of existing roads and the other R3-million is for the ongoing revamps,” he said. Ngwenya said the Reeston roadworks were set to begin in November. — sisiphoz@dispatch.co.za By SISIPHO ZAMXAKA and ZIKHONA MOYIKWA There have been mounting concerns about the roadworks that have come to a halt in East London’s city centre, posing danger to motorists and pedestrians. The reconstruction of Oxford Street between Terminus and St George’s streets has left warped, uneven road levels ,causing confusion… October 6, 2017 In "News" By SISISPHO ZAMXAKA and ZIKHONA MOYIKWA There have been mounting concerns about the roadworks that have come to a halt in East London’s city centre, posing danger to motorists and pedestrians. The reconstruction of Oxford Street between Terminus and St George’s streets has left warped, uneven road levels ,causing confusion… October 6, 2017 In "Featured" By NONSINDISO QWABE and ATHENA O’REILLY Recent rains throughout the Eastern Cape brought some relief to drought-stricken parts of the province. Heavy rains were experienced in more than half of the province since last Thursday, and the South African Weather Service (SAWS) predicted that the wet weather would continue until… October 10, 2017 In "Featured"