From an earthquake warning‚ to a hurricane alert and the story of a newly constructed bridge crumbling – fake news trolls were whipping up panic as storm-ravaged Durban battled to contain the disaster that struck on Tuesday. Social media platforms were buzzing with news about the “collapse” of a newly constructed bridge near Umhlanga. Motorists were urged to stay away from the area. “New bridge N2/M41 at Gateway starting to cave in‚ Could collapse. Emergency services closing off. Please avoid‚” the message read. Certain news sites also reported that the bridge had given way. Shortly after this “news” broke‚ the South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) issued a statement dismissing the report as a hoax. It was actually a sandbank that had collapsed onto a main road in the Mt Edgecombe vicinity‚ north of Durban. “Contrary to hoax reports‚ there has been no damage to the Mt Edgecombe Interchange which has been inspected by site engineers and no structures have been found to have collapsed. “A cut face on the M41 between the Mt Edgecombe Interchange and the new Flanders Interchange‚ collapsed onto the M41‚ closing part of the M41 east bound. The actual road is‚ however‚ intact and will be reopened once the mud debris has been cleared‚” said Sanral. Another piece of alarming news‚ purported to have emanated from an official weather service‚ also did its rounds on WhatsApp. It read: “WEATHER ALERT: Hurricane Sifiso to hit KZN‚ please keep in doors as this storm is classified as a category 3 storm. Heavy gale force winds predicted at 90km/h with Gusts of 120km/h reported by Weather ALERT SA. Storm expected to subside in 3-4 days‚ Avoid travelling in these conditions. Please be cautious people. FORWARD TO FRIENDS & FAMILY.” The same message had circulated on social media last month. It resurfaced on Tuesday and went viral within minutes. It was left to the South African Weather Service to do damage control with a tweet: “Please note: Current system over KwaZulu-Natal due to CUT-OFF LOW. It is not a tropical cyclone. Expected to calm down late afternoon.” As Durban and surrounds struggled with flooded homes and roads‚ submerged cars‚ accidents‚ sink holes and gale force winds‚ another social media “news alert“ of a possible earthquake‚ caused even more panic. It read: “Please be advised that the earthquake that happened in some parts of Africa is not yet over because it’s in rotation form. The researchers under geography are encouraging people to stay awake because a massive earthquake is going to occur tomorrow morning at around 2am. It has been proved that the earthquake is caused by the lava of the volcano that is under pressure beneath the earth’s surface ready to be exposed to the earth’s surface. Countries expected to be affected are Zimbabwe‚ Botswana‚ Zambia‚ part of South Africa‚ Mozambique‚Malawi‚ Ghana and Madagascar (sic).” – TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. Traffic authorities were braced for two days of chaos following the N3 bridge collapse in Gauteng - but demolition and clean-up teams worked through the night to ensure that the multi-lane highway reopened on Thursday morning. "We had an emergency meeting yesterday‚" said Joburg Metro Police spokesman Wayne Minnaar on… August 10, 2017 In "News" By: Jeff Wicks And Taschica Pillay Severe storms in KwaZulu-Natal have claimed their first fatality as relentless rain and wind forced some schools to suspend learning. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BRfvkHvgHY A policeman died after a container collapsed onto a police vehicle in Maydon Wharf in Durban on Tuesday morning‚ said Rescue Care’s Garrith… October 10, 2017 In "News" By ZWANGA MUKHUTHU Plans are at an advanced stage to build two mega bridges valued at R3.5-billion as part of the N2 Wild Coast toll road. One of the bridges will go over Msikaba River near the Mkambati Nature Reserve and the other over the Mtentu River just outside Xolobeni.… June 30, 2016 In "Featured"