Authorities in KwaZulu-Natal will on Wednesday begin mopping up operations after a devastating a “super-cell thunderstorm” hit the province. At least nine people lost their lives when driving rain and gale force winds of 70-90km/h pummelled the region from about 8am on Tuesday. The South African Weather Service said the storm had moved from Gauteng on Monday to KwaZulu-Natal and the Eastern Cape. It was characterised by a deep‚ rotating updraft associated with tornadoes‚ large hail‚ strong winds and flash flooding. South coast towns from Port Shepstone to the Bluff were the hardest hit in KwaZulu-Natal. Thousands of households were flooded and left without electricity. MECs of health‚ human settlements‚ education and local government will visit the King Edward and Prince Mshiyeni Hospitals in Umlazi on Wednesday‚ accompanied by eThekwini mayor Zandile Gumede. Two patients died and two others were seriously injured when a wall collapsed at the Umlazi hospital. -TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. South Africans need to brace themselves as night temperatures are expected to take a dip on Monday evening‚ the South African Weather Services (SAWS) said on Monday. Speaking to Tiso Black Star Group Digital‚ SAWS forecaster Wayne Venter said that temperatures in the interior of the Eastern Cape as well… July 25, 2016 In "Featured" By: Jeff Wicks And Taschica Pillay Severe storms in KwaZulu-Natal have claimed their first fatality as relentless rain and wind forced some schools to suspend learning. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3BRfvkHvgHY A policeman died after a container collapsed onto a police vehicle in Maydon Wharf in Durban on Tuesday morning‚ said Rescue Care’s Garrith… October 10, 2017 In "News" Brace yourself for a stormy afternoon on Monday in Gauteng. Severe thunder storms accompanied by hail are expected in the province. South African Weather Service forecaster Dipuo Kawana said that the storm activity could be severe. Storm activity is also expected in parts of the North West‚ Free State‚ Limpopo… October 9, 2017 In "News"