Excited first-time car owner Nokulunga Madosi was chauffeured out of the Suzuki car dealership in Vincent, East London, by her husband Sabelo after she won the Daily Dispatch Win-A-Car competition.  Nokulunga, of Fort Beaufort, was picked as the competition’s winner this week and the snazzy Suzuki Swift was handed over to her yesterday. An atmosphere of festivity filled the air at the dealership as staff also joined in and shared in the family’s excitement. This is the family’s first car. The couple could not contain their excitement as they were handed the keys to their brand new car. “My husband works far from home. We used to take turns each weekend to visit one another or have him come home to be with me and our kids. “Having this car is going to turn our living situation around. I couldn’t be happier,” a beaming Nokulunga said. She said it was the first time in her life that she’d won anything. “When I received the call telling me that I’d won, I had to contain my excitement because I was at work, but all I wanted to do was scream. Now that I’m seeing the car, my joy has been made complete.” The 34-year-old receptionist at a surgery in Alice said her boss and colleagues encouraged her to enter the competition. “Our boss buys the Daily Dispatch every day, so when I saw the competition I told them I was interested in entering. “Every day I’d cut out the entry forms and keep them in a pile, and post them to East London at the end of each week. “One time I was on leave for a week, but I asked my colleague to continue cutting the forms out on my behalf because I had some hope that I would win. “Now that I’ve won, they’re all happy for me. I prayed a lot for this car. I haven’t been able to eat or sleep since I received the call because of nerves and excitement.” Her husband said he was grateful to her for entering the competition. “I know how to drive but we couldn’t afford to buy a car for our family yet. Today we’re collecting our brand new car, I’m so grateful and overjoyed. It will now be easy for us to see each other as a family. “Our parents will also benefit from this car. The entire family is excited for us and can’t wait for us to come back with it. “Our car is beautiful. We couldn’t have asked for a better one.” Suzuki Auto East London general manager Steve Chandler said: “We’re very excited for the winner and we believe the car will change their lives for the better. It is a great car, very economical and has a five-year warranty and service plan, so it’ll be no costs to the new owners for many years to come. “It’s an amazing brand.” — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za   Nokulunga Madosi of Hillside location in Fort Beaufort was yesterday drawn as the winner of a snazzy new Suzuki Swift out of more than 200000 entries for the popular Daily Dispatch Win-A-Car competition. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=skC-bpK3XZU The much anticipated announcement was made at the draw yester-day afternoon at the Daily Dispatch offices… October 4, 2017 In "Featured" Champagne corks flew yesterday as the Daily Dispatch Win-a-Car competition winner Pamela Jacobs received the keys of her gleaming new Peugeot 208 at the dealership’s Vincent showroom. Jacobs, 41, of Buffalo Flats, could not stop grinning as she took her new ride for a quick spin after being congratulated by… June 23, 2015 In "News" QUEENSTOWN resident Valencia Koza’s penchant for entering competitions paid off when she walked away with a new Peugeot 208 in the Daily Dispatch’s win-acar competition. Koza, who doesn’t have a driver’s licence, visited the Dispatch offices yesterday to claim her prize, selecting a grey 208. A retired teacher and mother… August 26, 2014 In "News"