After coming under the fire for not paying out one of its Yebo Millionaires winners, Vodacom responded by calling all winners to come forward and claim their money – but it can’t tell them how to do so. Vodacom spokesman Byron Kennedy says there is still R3-million in unclaimed cash prizes. But seemingly there is no way to claim them. East Londoner Neville Edworthy told the Dispatch last week of his disappointment after receiving a congratulatory text from Vodacom in January telling him he had won money, but the money never came. He was told he and 89 others had won a share of R150000 after eight of the letters he played in the competition matched the competition’s nine letters. In the January text Vodacom said they would call Edworthy about how to get the prize, but he said he never got the call. After months of waiting, he was informed by a Vodacom official that he’d waited too long and his prize had expired. A dismayed Edworthy felt doubly disappointed to hear that not only was there not prize but he was being blamed for not collecting it. The Dispatch asked Vodacom for their response last Monday and a written reply came back on Friday. Kennedy said all Yebo Millionaires winners who had not yet claimed their cash should come forward. “The popular TV game show has rewarded Vodacom customers since October 2005. East London resident Neville Edworthy is one of many winners who got lucky and won a cash prize from the Vodacom Millionaires show. “Like many other Vodacom Millionaires game show winners, Edworthy has not yet contacted Vodacom to claim his prize.” Kennedy said: “We still have winners who have not yet claimed their money. We have about R3-million cash prize [sic] that still need to be claimed from the old Vodacom Millionaires show.” Kennedy said: “When the show ended in April this year, winners were given a window period of 90 working days to claim their cash prize. Vodacom is in the process of paying the winners their money. Many other winners like Mr Edworthy missed the window period deadline to claim their prize.” Edworthy said he was never told about a 90-day deadline. Kennedy said the Yebo Millionaires team would pay out Edworthy’s cash prize “as soon as as he claims his prize by submitting all the necessary documentation for verification”. An excited Edworthy said: “I haven’t heard the good news for myself, but I am very happy that they will be paying me my money. “It will come in handy for my family. I will hang on until they call me and will certainly keep you posted. Thank you very much for the help, Daily Dispatch.” Kennedy said winners should contact the Vodacom millionaires call centre on 0822432082 to access their unclaimed prizes. However, when the Dispatch dialled the number yesterday, an automatic recorded voice message stated: “The number you have dialled does not exist.” — nonsindisoq@dispatch.co.za