Residents of Jet Park in Boksburg will have to wait until Sunday for power to be restored in the area‚ the City of Ekurhuleni has said. This is after the Yaldwyn power station in Jet Park near the OR Tambo Airport caught fire‚ causing massive power outages on the East Rand when a heavy storm swept through Gauteng. Ekurhuleni spokesperson Themba Gadebe said power was restored in parts of Boksburg on Monday. “Unfortunately due to the extent of the damage to the substation‚ it is estimated that power will only be restored by Sunday. The team is already on site and repairs are under way. Teams will work around the clock to try and restore power as soon as possible.” Gadebe said the delays in restoring power in Jet Park were due to the equipment in the substation having to be replaced and tested. At least one person died and several others were injured in what was described as a tornado that ripped off the roofs of a primary school‚ a shopping mall and many houses on the West Rand of Gauteng. -TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. Electrical engineers worked around the clock at the weekend to restore power to large parts of the East London central business district (CBD) which were left without electricity after an explosion seriously damaged the Arcadia electrical sub-station on Friday. The affected areas included parts of Southernwood, Quigney, the beachfront area,… November 17, 2014 In "Metro" AN EXPLOSION at a power station threw major parts of East London into darkness yesterday, forcing many businesses to shut their doors for the day. The outage was due to an exploded power breaker at the Chiselhurst power station. The manager of operations for Buffalo City Metro (BCM), Johan Olivier… April 18, 2013 In "News" A mystery voltage blow-up that took place at Queens Park Zoo Substation this afternoon  left some parts of the city without electricity. The technical fault was the second one the substation had experienced in recent months when one of the voltage transformers (VT's) on the 135 kB line blew up.… August 21, 2017 In "Featured"