Justice was swift in apprehending  and sentencing a convict who escaped police custody two weeks ago with his friend at the Mdantsane Magistrate’s court. Thabani Mkokheli,30, has been sentenced to two years imprisonment after escaping at the Mdantsane Magistrate’s Court earlier this month, with his co-partner Lulekani Somtsora, 25. The duo  escaped from holding cells after their lawyer failed to inform the guards  that he was done with his consultation, leaving  them unsupervised, with the opportunity to escape. Mkokheli and Somtsora are both facing charges of murder, four counts of robbery with aggravating circumstances, housebreaking with intent to rob, illegal possession of a firearm and being in possession of ammunition. Both men now have an additional charge of escaping lawful custody. Mdantsane  police spokesperson Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said: “Police members worked tirelessly on this case and succeeded in re-arresting Mkokheli from the streets of our communities. “Mkokheli has been convicted for the unlawfulness that he committed while he appeared in court earlier this month. He will appear again in court for the charges he was arrested for before escaping.”     One of two men awaiting their murder trial who escaped from the Mdantsane Regional Court last Monday has been re-arrested following a manhunt. Thabani Mkhokeli, 30, believed to be dangerous, was arrested while hiding in a shack in the densely populated Duncan Village yesterday following a week on the run.… October 17, 2017 In "News" Two dangerous awaiting-trial prisoners escaped from the Mdantsane Regional Court holding cells on Monday after their lawyer left them unattended when he had finished consulting with them. The two suspects – Thabani Mkhokheli, 30, and Lulekani Somtsora, 25 – were in court to face a charge of murder, four counts… October 11, 2017 In "Featured" Here are the five most wanted, feared and ferocious men in the Eastern Cape. They are on the run from the law, but when caught will be charged with rape, murder and armed robbery. Yesterday, Eastern Cape police appealed to the public to help bring these dangerous men in and,… October 18, 2017 In "Featured"