Mbizana police have found a human head and a woman’s private parts in a shallow grave.  Following a two-week investigation after a schoolgirl was found murdered and her body dismembered, they arrested a sangoma, 30, who led them to the grisly remains. The arrest was made by a task team led by Captain Arnold Freemantle in the early hours of Friday. The killing on October 15 is believed to be muti-related. Sinoyolo Mgaga, 18, an AB Tshayingca High School Grade 10 pupil from KwaNikhwe village, was beheaded and her private parts removed. Hundreds of raging Mbizana community members, including schoolchildren, last week closed down the town as they protested outside the police station. Police spokeswoman Captain Edith Mjoko said police, acting on information, arrested the sangoma at 2am at his KwaNikhwe home. He led police to the grave containing the head and private parts. A blood-stained knife and crowbar were also found. The arrest took place on the day a vigil was held for Mgaga. Her burial on Saturday was changed to a memorial service after family agreed that her body be released to police for DNA and forensic tests, said Mjoko Mbizana police have found a human head and a woman’s private parts in a shallow grave. Following a two-week investigation after a schoolgirl was found murdered and her body dismembered, they arrested a sangoma, 30, who led them to the grisly remains. The arrest was made by a task team… October 30, 2017 In "News" ABOUT 200 people including children picketed outside the Flagstaff Magistrate’s Court yesterday opposing bail for a sangoma who allegedly raped three young girls left in his care. The suspect, who cannot be named until he has pleaded, was allegedly tasked with healing the girls, aged between nine and 13, from… May 20, 2014 In "News" The decapitated body of a four-year-old boy has been found in Khayelitsha, Cape Town, Western Cape police said on Wednesday. Captain FC van Wyk said the child went for a walk with his uncle in a bushy area on Tuesday, but the man returned alone. "After a while he came… April 23, 2014 In "News"