A Daily Dispatch newspaper vendor who found a R200 note blowing in the wind in Oxford Street had her feet kissed by the relieved owner of the money after she tracked him down yesterday. Irene Mfalasi, 48, who sells the Dispatch in the CBD, was thrilled when R200 fluttered passed her at lunchtime. “I ran after it and grabbed it and was thankful to God for giving me money because I need it. But it had a piece of paper rolled into it with someone’s details. I knew it belonged to someone.” Scrawled on the piece of paper were banking details, the name Thandolwethu and the name of a company. “I asked a lady for help and she phoned the company for me.” Mfalasi spent the next two or three hours trying to track down the man who had lost the money and the Daily Dispatch was there when she finally made contact with Luxolo Madikane outside his internet cafe in Gladstone Street. Madikane fell to his knees and kissed her ballet pumps in gratitude. Madikane promised the newspaper vendor free internet and printing services at the cafe and also offered her a weekly cleaning job at the cafe which Mfalasi accepted. — barbarah@dispatch.co.za Fake bank notes suspected to be part of an elaborate scam to dupe victims to pay into a “get rich quick” scheme were found hidden at an East London beach yesterday. The fake bank notes were discovered by police at Leaches Bay beach in West Bank after they were called… January 3, 2017 In "Featured" Hundreds of  East London residents, who invested their hard-earned cash in a money-making scheme, were left devastated yesterday when the investment company disappeared overnight. Mzantsi Trading Centre, which promised to double clients’ money within 15 business days, had been operating on the first floor at Jabex House on the corner of… March 31, 2016 In "News" A disgruntled prisoner jailed for shooting an exgirlfriend three times at her workplace in Nahoon, is upset that a magistrate has awarded her more than half his provident fund to maintain their two children. Former Umkhonto weSizwe (MK) veteran and Buffalo City Metro grass cutter, Mxolisi Leleki, 56, a father… January 24, 2015 In "News"