Police have confirmed to TshisaLIVE that three men currently held in connection with the attempted hijacking of Rhythm City star Dumi Masilela have been charged with his murder. Spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini said investigations had linked the three to the incident. “I can confirm that the three suspects held by police for the attempted hijacking of Dumi Masilela have been charged with his murder and will appear at the Benoni Magistrates Court on Friday‚” Dlamini said. The suspects had earlier appeared in court on charges of being in possession of a hijacked Jeep and an unlicensed firearm. Detective Mthokozisi Ngwenya told the Benoni Magistrate’s Court last month that Masilela’s alleged shooter “refused” to be charged. “Last time I went to Modderbee [Correctional Services]‚ the suspect refused to be charged‚ saying that he needed to consult with his lawyer‚” Ngwenya told the court. Dlamini said that investigations were ongoing and would not comment on reports that police were still looking for three other suspects. Masilela was parked on a road in Tembisa on August 2 when a black Jeep approached his car. As he tried to drive away‚ he was shot once. He drove himself halfway to hospital where he underwent surgery. He was later declared dead. Questions have been asked about why the alleged gunman in Jayde Panayiotou’s murder did not have his parole withdrawn three months ago after his arrest for armed robbery. This emerged as Luthando Siyoli‚ the bouncer who is said to have told police he was paid R30 000 by Jayde husband’s… May 7, 2015 In "News" Four suspects linked to ongoing violence over proposed sand mining rights at Xolobeni on the Wild Coast have been remanded in custody following their appearance in the Mbizana Magistrate’s Court yesterday. They were arrested last week following violence on December 29 in which three people were seriously injured. The victims… January 5, 2016 In "News" Six people have been arrested after an outbreak of public violence following a political dispute between two community groups in the Sterkstroom area near Queenstown in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday. Eastern Cape police spokesman Lieutenant Namhla Mdleleni said the suspects‚ aged between 26 and 37 years‚ would be charged… October 7, 2015 In "News"