A University of the Witwatersrand lecturer was among hundreds of motorists who were left frustrated this morning on the R82 towards Vereeniging‚ as farmers barricaded the road with trucks and tractors.  The farmers‚ wearing black outfits‚ were part of the #BlackMonday blockade to demand action against farm killings. “I stay in Vereeniging‚ and I had an appointment with my students at 10:15 am‚” said the Wits lecturer‚ who wished to remain anonymous. “I was surprised to find a long queue of cars‚ and we have been here for an hour. This is surprising – because when it is black people who are protesting‚ police are quick to use rubber bullets.” Motorists had to find alternative routes to and from Johannesburg. By 9:30am‚ disgruntled motorists were trying to force their way through the blockade. One motorist said that protestors had no rights to close the road‚ to which the farmers responded by asking him if it was akay for them to be killed. A Community Policing Forum member said that the road closure began at about 9am. He added: “This is not about us‚ but the crime that is happening in South Africa. We are not fighting with anyone; we only want to be heard. Farm murders should be stopped.” The road was finally re-opened at 10:50am. -SowetanLIVE Source: TMG Digital. Combine harvesters‚ tractors and bakkies caused a traffic snarl along the N3 near Bergville and Estcourt in the KwaZulu-Natal midlands on Monday morning‚ as farmers drove home their protest against farm murders in the country. About 250 farmers from the areas around Bergville‚ Estcourt‚ Himeville‚ Colenso and Ladysmith‚ wearing shorts… October 30, 2017 In "News" A white woman who claimed to have given birth to a black child will stand trial in the Vereeniging Magistrate’s Court later this year. The fraud case against the woman was postponed on Monday because magistrate Chris Kruger was not feeling well. The woman‚ who cannot be named to protect… June 20, 2016 In "News" The shocking state of rural roads on the Sunshine Coast is costing motorists thousands in vehicle damages. Farmers, schools and informal traders who buy produce from farms around Bathurst yesterday demanded provincial public works and the Ndlambe municipality urgently resurface and repair hundreds of kilometres of roads before someone gets… February 4, 2016 In "News"