Today marks three years since Bafana Bafana goalkeeper‚ Senzo Meyiwa was killed during an alleged robbery at his then girlfriend‚ Kelly Khumalo’s family home in Vosloorus. As those close to him and fans across the country remember Senzo through tributes on social media‚ no arrests have been made by police. Police initially arrested a man just days after the shooting‚ however‚ he was later released and has filed a civil claim against the SAPS for R10-million for wrongful arrest. On the first anniversary of Senzo’s death‚ Kelly penned an emotional blog post opening up the incident. Kelly said that when Senzo died her entire world was ripped from her‚ because the love she had for him was indescribable. “I was too heartbroken to say this then‚ but I am so sorry for your loss South Africa. I know that there will never be anyone else like him. I hope that you never forget him‚ as I know that I never could.” Twitter users have inundated social media with tributes and angry posts about his killers not being brought to book.      The war between the father of slain Bafana Bafana goalkeeper Senzo Meyiwa and musician Kelly Khumalo continues after PSL chairman‚ Irvin Khoza‚ confirmed a payout was close to being finalised. Khoza will meet the Meyiwa family next week to finalise a multi-million-rand payout. But Senzo’s father‚ Sam Meyiwa‚ is determined… April 8, 2016 In "Entertainment" The Hawks have refused to confirm reports that an arrest in connection with the murder of ex-Bafana Bafana captain Senzo Meyiwa was imminent. Hawks spokesperson Major Robert Netshiunda said he "doesn’t know where this is coming from". He said the unit would not be commenting on the progress of the… March 28, 2016 In "News" Shaken, scared and allegedly wrongfully accused, the man suspected of killing Bafana Bafana captain Senzo Meyiwa wants answers – and an apology. Yesterday the Boksburg Magistrate’s Court confirmed that all charges against Zamokuhle Mbatha had been dropped and he was a free man. The dreadlocked 27-year-old was charged with armed… November 12, 2014 In "News"