Eskom’s decision to recover more than R1.5 billion from consulting firm McKinsey and politically connected Trillian is evidence enough of wrongdoing‚ says the Democratic Alliance (DA).  The parastatal – which initially lied to Parliament‚ saying it had not paid Trillian a cent – now says the money appears to have been paid unlawfully and has asked the consultancies to repay it. DA MP Natasha Mazzone said: “Eskom’s decision to recover these monies is evidence that there was in fact wrongdoing and that these payments were not above board. “After months of defending these payments‚ the power utility now wants to recover the money.” Mazzone said simply paying back the money was not enough. “Those responsible for these unlawful payments must be held accountable.” Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/companies/energy/2017-10-06-eskom-begins-process-to-get-back-the-money/ reported on Friday that Eskom paid R1.6bn to McKinsey and to the Gupta family-linked Trillian in 2016. The parastatal did not follow its own procurement regulations or obtain an exemption from Treasury for tendering procedures. Eskom has suspended at least five senior managers implicated in the saga. “Had the DA not caught Eskom out in the lie by submitting a Parliamentary question to the Public Enterprises Minister‚ Lynne Brown‚ regarding the relationship between Eskom‚ McKinsey and Trillian‚ Eskom would have never come clean‚” said Mazzone. Eskom has delayed releasing its full-year financial results on Tuesday. Eskom cancelled its presentation at the eleventh hour‚ saying on Monday evening that the reporting is postponed "until further notice". It has not given reasons for the cancellation‚ but Eskom auditors have raised red flags about serious reporting irregularities. On… July 11, 2017 In "Featured" Asking Eskom chairman Ben Ngubane to investigate allegations that Eskom is destroying documents related to the reinstatement of CEO Brian Molefe is the equivalent of “asking a fox to guard a henhouse”. This is the view of the Democratic Alliance‚ which had claimed on Wednesday that it had it “on… May 25, 2017 In "News" Four indebted Eastern Cape municipalities are in for a dark Christmas after Eskom started rolling blackouts on Tuesday. The power utility started power outages in the Gariep, Maletswai, Ikwezi, and Nxuba municipalities from 06:00 on Tuesday. The four owe Eskom over R170m. The disconnections would be for nine hours a… December 22, 2015 In "News"