The Higher Education Transformation Network (HETN) has called on President Jacob Zuma to “urgently” release the final report of the Fees Commission. The lobby group said the findings contained in the report were crucial to the immediate future of higher education. “We believe that it is critical that the Fees Commission Report be disseminated and discussed with all role players in higher education to clarify the policy stance of the state with regards to planned fee increments for 2018 and to also avoid possible disruptions within the sector as some universities have already started the process of announcing fee increments for 2018‚” said HETN’s Sibongile Malinga. In August Zuma received the final report of the commission‚ established to look into the feasibility of scrapping university tuition fees. The commission was appointed by Zuma in 2015 after university campuses erupted in protests that often turned violent and resulted in clashes between students and police. Tensions also boiled over at the commission‚ with some sittings being disrupted by students. HETN said the continued delays in issuing the report could only lead to further policy confusion and give room to “unilateral” actions by university vice-chancellors and councils‚ thus precipitating another student revolt similar to 2015. -TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. Even the poorest of university students will have to find a way to pay back the money for their tertiary education, or risk getting nailed by the taxman. This is one of the key recommendations put forward by the Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education and Training. The commission’s interim report,… November 24, 2016 In "Featured" “Media reports with regards to university fee increases for 2017” prompted the Presidency to issue a statement saying “consultations within government and with stakeholders in the higher education sector are still taking place”. It was unclear what reports the Presidency was referring to‚ but two groups – the South African… August 22, 2016 In "News" The Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education and Training has appealed for composure from all stakeholders as it finalises proposals for a long-term funding model for higher education and training. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JsZPgd41FNc The commission made this comment following the announcement by the Department of Higher Education & Training regarding the tuition… September 19, 2016 In "News"