At least one person has been reported killed and four others injured in the Krugersdorp area on the West Rand as a result of severe storms that lashed large parts of Gauteng on Monday afternoon‚ leaving a trail of destruction in their wake.  Netcare 911 tweeted that one person had been killed and two hospitalised as a reported tornado struck the Hillside Road area in the Krugersdorp vicinity. No further details were immediately available. Paramedics also reported that two people had been injured when a severe hailstorm caused part of the roof of the Cradlestone Mall north of Krugersdorp. “ER24 paramedics‚ along with Life Healthcare and other services‚ arrived on the scene where they found that some of the external structure of the mall had collapsed. Once inside the shops‚ paramedics found that some of the ceiling had collapsed on the patrons‚” said ER24 spokesman Russel Meiring.
.
Two people were assessed by paramedics and found to have sustained minor to moderate injuries‚ he said. “Fortunately‚ no serious or fatal injuries were found on the scene. “Security members from the mall evacuated the area while paramedics treated the two patients. Shortly after‚ both patients were transported to a nearby hospital for further treatment. “Local authorities were on the scene for further investigations‚” Meiring added. Generations actor Rapulana Seiphemo‚ who plays Tau Mogale‚ is reported to be in a critical but stable condition in a private Johannesburg hospital after a car accident last night‚ according to various news reports. The actor‚ aged 48‚ is expected to undergo surgery this afternoon‚ the SABC’s Thabile Mbhele said… February 15, 2016 In "News" Fourteen people were killed and two others injured on Friday afternoon when a large truck and taxi collided head-on on Randfontein Road in Randfontein. Fourteen people were killed and two others injured on Friday afternoon when a large truck and taxi collided head-on on Randfontein Road in Randfontein. Paramedics and… April 29, 2016 In "News" Three people were killed and a fourth person critically injured when a car crashed into a tree next to Khutsong road in Carletonville west of Johannesburg during the early hours of Saturday morning‚ paramedics said. “At approximately 02h30‚ ER24 paramedics arrived at the scene and found four male patients were… July 15, 2017 In "News"