On Wednesday night Khanyi Mbau’s new 13-part reality series made its debut on BET Africa and the media were invited to a exclusive pre-screening in Johannesburg. After the first episode‚ Khanyi said she thought she was the best person for the job because her life has been an open secret. “I’m life’s best student. I’ve lived my life in the most honest way. I am one person who has evolved with time. When you are the biggest sinner people want to open up to you.” The show takes ordinary people and lets them reveal their biggest secret to not only their families‚ but South Africa. In the first episode a man revealed that he was molested as a child by a trusted family friend and was also confused about his sexuality‚ explaining that he liked men and women. Khanyi said that after 13 gruelling episodes‚ she realised more than ever that society is broken. “We need to open the dialogue. We are broken. Society is broken. I’ve become like Sis Dolly. I get messages all the time and stay in touch with some of the people who were on the show.” It airs every Wednesday at 21:30 on DStv channel 129. Khanyi Mbau has stood firm and unapologetic on her views‚ which defended Dove's controversial advertising campaign that sparked widespread outrage on social media on Monday. In an interview Khanyi Mbau told TshisaLIVE that black people need to address the "inferiority complex and psychological issues" they have. Dove SA infuriated thousands… October 10, 2017 In "Entertainment" Ex bad girl picks Kelly Khumalo as a guest FORMER bad gal Khanyi Mbau is aiming to be the country’s new talk show queen, and has cherry-picked ex-rival Kelly Khumalo and fallen Kwaito songstress Mshoza as her guests for the debut episode. The show premieres on e.tv on October 18,… October 9, 2013 In "Lifestyle" There was a time when the South African film industry was synonymous with drama but there’s a new romantic comedy being filmed that could change that. The South African novel‚ penned by Cynthia Nozizwe Jele‚ titled Happiness is a Four Letter Word‚ is being turned into a feature film with… August 3, 2015 In "News"