Enthusiastic up-and-coming fashion designers in the Eastern Cape have until tomorrow to enter the Buyel’Ekhaya Fashion Development Programme. Now in its second year, the programme – which aims to develop Eastern Cape-born artists – is looking for eight finalists, who will get a chance to work with some of the household names in the fashion industry. Last year’s winners are currently interns of popular fashion designers Thula Sindi and David Tlale. Programme manager Phoebe Phokonpe said the programme had been well received last year. “Through this programme, Buyel’Ekhaya ensures that the participants and overall winners are exposed to various aspects of the fashion business including, but not limited to, establishing a brand as well as manufacturing and registering a business,” Phokonpe said. One of last year’s finalists – Phindile Makupula, 31 – landed an internship with Sindi. “The internship was an amazing experience and I learnt a lot,” she told the Daily Dispatch yesterday. Makupula is now based in Johannesburg and was a designer for the East London Fashion Week and Berlin November last year. “I am now trying to make a name for myself in the industry,” she said. To be eligible for the programme, aspiring designers must have a qualification in fashion design from, or be studying towards one with, an accredited institution; be between 18 and 35 years old and be permanent Eastern Cape residents. They should also have three completed design sketches and be available to attend a workshop on October 23 in East London. The hopefuls should also be prepared to travel to Johannesburg from November 6 to 15, and then be able to be back in East London for workshops between December 13 and 15. To participate in the programme, visit www.buyelekhaya.co.za before 2pm tomorrow. Those who make the cut and receive internships will be announced at the Buyel’Ekhaya fashion show at Orient Theatre on December 15. — zikhonam@dispatch.co.za Top designer David Tlale was in East London yesterday to conduct a workshop for aspiring fashion designers and Walter Sisulu University students. The workshop forms part of the inaugural Buyel’ekhaya Fashion Development Programme which is being run under the auspices of the annual Buyel’ekhaya Pan African Festival at the Buffalo… November 22, 2016 In "Lifestyle" Explosions of colour, African-inspired prints and cutting-edge design were the hallmarks of this year’s edition of the annual Walter Sisulu University fashion show Ramp Revolution. The show, which featured the work of 43 of the university’s fashion design students, was held at East London’s Guild Theatre on Sunday where third-year… December 6, 2016 In "Daily Life" By QAQAMBA MAGADLA and VUVU VENA It was all lights, camera and action for models who strutted designer masterpieces at the East London Fashion Walk on Saturday night. Held at TheVenue@Hemingways, the event, in its second year, saw fashionistas and locals brave the wet weather to see some of the province’s… September 12, 2016 In "Featured"