Senior state prosecuting advocate Diniso Ketani has been taken off two cases involving top Buffalo City Metro officials, politicians and powerful business people charged with stealing millions by fraud. Ketani, who is based in the national office of the specialised commercial crimes unit, was in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday, where two of the high-profile cases he was prosecuting were due to be heard. However, they could not proceed because he said the state could no longer afford to pay for his travel and accommodation expenses. As a result, Ketani told presiding magistrate Ignatius Kitching, the dockets would now be handled by an East London counterpart in the National Prosecuting Author-ity (NPA). “Your worship, my colleague from the local office will take over the matter because the NPA is embarking on cost- cutting measures. “The government does not have money,” Ketani said. The name of the new prosecutor was not revealed in court yesterday. In one case the accused include BCM chief financial officer Vincent Pillay, supply chain manager Thembelani Sali, head of executive support services Ncumisa Sidukwana, councillor Luleka Simon-Ndzele, attorney Matthew Moodley and former mayor Zukiswa Ncitha. They are accused of defrauding the municipality of R189000. The complainant in the matter is former BCM municipal manager Andile Fani. The accused were supposed to have gone on trial yesterday, but the case is now postponed to February 12 next year so that the new prosecutor can catch up on the contents of the docket. The second case involves ANC MP Zukisa Faku, prominent businessman Monde Webster Ndodana and seven other businesspeople accused of defrauding BCM of R15.6-million. The charges stem from when Faku was mayor in 2009. The state claims she hired Ndodana’s firm to provide technical and management support service to improve BCM’s infrastructure and service delivery between August 2009 and August 2010. The firm was allegedly paid R15-million from the mayor’s discretionary fund, although the state claims there was no evidence of work being done. — zwangam@dispatch.co.za The state wants to separate an East London trial involving several politicians and powerful business people implicated in the Nelson Mandela funeral fraud scandal, it announced yesterday. Proceedings began shortly after 11am as dozens of ANC supporters sang pro-Pumlani Mkolo songs and danced outside the East London Magistrate’s Court. Senior… October 4, 2017 In "News" The team spearheading the state’s case in the Mandela memorial service fraud has been linked to a litany of questionable incidents. Pretoria-based prosecutor Diniso Ketani and East London police Hawks investigator Captain Luphumlo Lwana have been running the state’s case against Buffalo City Metro executive mayor Zukiswa Ncitha, ANC regional… March 27, 2015 In "News" The fraud case against Buffalo City Metro chief financial officer Vincent Pillay, supply chain manager Thembelani Sali, councillor Luleka Simon-Ndzele and the city’s lawyer, Matthew Moodley, was yet again postponed in the East London Magistrate’s Court yesterday. The four were joined in the dock by former BCM mayor Zukiswa Ncitha… June 8, 2017 In "News"