Twitter has been left infuriated by a Dove advert that has been dubbed ‘racist’ and has led to thousands of social media users threatening to boycott. It’s been more than 24 hours since a screenshot from the full advert surfaced‚ but it continues to dominate the Twitter trends list. The advert which has since been withdrawn by the company shows a black woman taking off her t-shirt‚ before she morphs into a white woman‚ seemingly because of a bottle of Dove body wash.  Dove issued an apology which it posted on its Facebook page‚ saying the advert “missed the mark”. “This did not represent the diversity of real beauty which is something Dove is passionate about and is core to our beliefs‚ and it should not have happened. We have removed the post and have not published any other content‚” the statement said. Despite the apology‚ Twitter does not seem as if its ready to forgive just yet. Users have lambasted the company and called on South Africans to boycott all Dove SA’s products.   https://twitter.com/ChulayoM/status/917032715429523457/photo/1         Source: TMG Digital. Cosmetics company Dove has apologised for an advert that caused an uproar on social media as it was viewed as racist.   The advert‚ which has been withdrawn‚ depicted a black woman pulling a shirt over her head and morphing into a white woman. A bottle of body wash features… October 9, 2017 In "News" The ANC on Tuesday slammed DA MP Mike Waters for posting a "racist" tweet and labelled the DA as a collection of racists. "We are neither shocked nor surprised by this behaviour from a member of the DA as the party proves on a regular basis that it is nothing… June 3, 2014 In "News" A number of Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) students have been duped into paying large deposits for a Summerstrand “room” which is actually a playground in the Port Elizabeth suburb. At least seven unsuspecting students‚ with four of them having either paid a deposit or administration fee‚ have knocked on… January 18, 2017 In "News"