Mandla Mandela has called for Mthatha Airport to once again be named after King Kaizer Daliwonga Matanzima of Western Thembuland. The airport was known as KD Matanzima Airport when Matanzima was the president of the apartheid-designed nominally independent Transkei government. Mandela was speaking at the funeral of Nozuko Hazel Matanzima, the wife of Daliwonga Matanzima, in Gwatyu on Saturday. Mandela said Matanzima’s name could not be erased from the history of this country. “There were people who visited us, wanting to name the airport in honour of Nelson Dalibhunga Mandela. If they want to honour Dalibhunga they must name the Port Elizabeth Airport after Mandela,” he said. He called on the AbaThembu people to protect Matanzima’s “legacy” and make sure that it did not end. “We have learnt a lot from this family and we have the responsibility to love and protect his legacy and heritage,” he said. Mandela said there were schools built by Matanzima which had been named after chiefs of his family. “We need to make sure these schools are not changed and they don’t die. It is up to us to kill or to preserve Matanzima’s legacy,” he said. Sending a message to the ANC provincial leadership which was elected at the weekend, Mandela said they should make sure this government was not the government that erased history. Mandela said he wanted a government that would remember the chiefs of the province. Chief Themba Mvulayehlobo Matanzima said some people who had oppressed people during apartheid were celebrated, while Daliwonga Matanzima was not celebrated. “Everything named after Matanzima is being erased in the history of this country. We had Matanzima High School which ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe attended, but now it has been changed to Bathandwa Ndondo High School,” he said. SA History Online states that Ndondo, an anti-apartheid student activist from Cala, was suspended from the University of Transkei during Matanzima’s reign because of his role in forming the first democratic SRC and for attempting to organising a Sharpeville commemoration. He was harassed by Matanzima’s security forces and on September 24 1985, was picked up at home by a Transkei-SA police assassination unit and shot dead. Matanzima announced Ndondo had been killed because he was involved in the Mthatha fuel depot bombings. Matanzima asked why there had been no reconciliation. “Please help us to fight this, so we can see reconciliation,” he said. On Saturday, Matanzima said he hoped the ANC provincial conference would choose sensitive leaders who would celebrate the role played by chiefs in the fight against oppression. “We need to do what KwaZulu-Natal is doing and celebrate the chiefs who fought against the white people. We must first remove apartheid names and get out of the Hendrik Verwoerd parliament.” Among the dignitaries who attended the funeral, were Western Pondoland King Ndamase Ndamase, Amarharhabe Queen Noloyiso Sandile, Prince Zolile Burns-Ncamashe, Chief Phathekile Holomisa and AbaThembu acting king Azenathi Zanelizwe Dalindyebo. Jailed AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo sent condolences to the Matanzima family. — thembiles@dispatch.co.za  