The body of an unidentified woman was found floating in the Kariega River in Kenton-on-Sea on Saturday. National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) spokesman Craig Lambinon said a crew had been alerted at 7.39am by police to a suspected drowning in progress. The sea rescue craft Rescue 11 Alpha was joined at the scene by a police K9 search-and-rescue squad and ambulance services. “We launched our sea rescue craft and recovered the body of a female from the river.” The body was taken by forensic pathology services. Police have opened an inquest docket. lA man was found dead at the traffic lights leading to Sunnyside Road in Amalinda yesterday afternoon. He had stab wounds to his upper body, said Warrant Officer Hazel Mqala. Police are investigating a murder docket. lWillowvale police arrested a 30-year-old man accused of rape by a 76-year-old woman from Bikane Village. Police spokesman Captain Jackson Manatha said the woman was alone when she was approached by the man on Friday. She alerted community members, who gave chase and managed to catch him. The police were then called and he was arrested. “Butterworth cluster commander Brigadier Trevor Mey thanked the community for their assistance in apprehending the suspect,” Manatha said. He is due to appear in the Willowvale Magistrate’s Court today. Willowvale police are also investigating the alleged rape of an 18-year-old student from Mevena Village which reportedly took place on Saturday night. Manatha said the student was on her way from a study group at around 9pm when she was chased by the suspect who was armed with a handgun. He then caught her and raped her, and is still at large, said Manatha. “Police are appealing to parents to assist their children with transport after hours and during weekends to avoid children being victimised,” Manatha said. lCambridge police made four arrests on Friday. Police spokesman Captain Nkosikho Mzuku said a youth, 22, was found in Cambridge Location with a pistol with its serial number filed off, as well as 21 rounds. In Amalinda, police arrested two robbery suspects and a 23-year-old evading a warrant of arrest. “Ten second-hand shops were visited to check for compliance with the Second-hand Goods Act. Some shops are not following lawful guidelines when buying items from their private clients. This creates a market for suspects to continue in criminal activities and sell stolen goods,” Mzuku said. — zisandan@dispatch.co.za