Tityaba Nature Reserve manager Karl Krull is being sued for R300000 by two men who have accused him of feeding them a dead dog. The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in Grahamstown declined earlier this year to prosecute Krull on the same allegations, saying there was insufficient evidence in the criminal case. However, Lwando Folokwe, 26, and Akhona Dyantyi, have opened a civil case against Krull for the alleged incident. The Dispatch has now seen a letter of demand, dated August 21, from East London law firm Fihla and Associates addressed to Krull, demanding that he pay Folokwe, and Dyantyi R150000 each for “deeply hurting, humiliating and tarnishing their reputations”. The two men’s lawyer Thamsanqa Fihla said yesterday they had instructed the sheriff of the court to serve summons on Krull after he failed to respond to their letter within 14 days. “He called saying he will respond but he never did. Krull declined to comment yesterday. The lawsuit relates to an incident on the afternoon of August 19 last year when Krull and his employee Siza Masentile allegedly caught Folokwe and Dyantyi inside the nature reserve with a dead bushbuck. Folokwe and Dyantyi claimed Krull shot dead their two dogs, pointed his gun at them and ordered them to eat one dead dog, which they say they did. Folokwe and Dyantyi were later arrested and charged with illegal hunting. That case is being heard in the Komga Magistrate’s Court and will be back again on the roll on October 17. Fihla said he had also written to the DPP advocate Lungi Mahlati asking him to furnish them with reasons for declining to prosecute Krull. In his response Mahlati said: “The decision not to prosecute Mr Krull and his employee was taken at the same time that a decision was taken to prosecute your clients on “poaching” charges. “The docket and counter dockets were considered jointly. Only once the case against your clients has been finalised shall I evaluate the evidence and credibility findings made by the magistrate and inform you of my final decision and provide you with reasons.” — zwangam@dispatch.co.za   Tyityaba nature reserve manager Karl Krull and his co-accused Siza Masentile made their third court appearance in the Komgha Magistrate’s Court this morning. The case against them was not heard after the National Prosecuting Authority said medical test results conducted on their accusers were not yet back from the laboratory.… October 18, 2016 In "News" Tyityiba nature reserve manager Karl Krull was branded a “killer” by social development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi outside the Komgha Magistrate’s Court yesterday. Sihlwayi was in the small farming town for the second court appearance of Lwando Folokwe, 25, and Akhona Dyantyi, 35, the two men Krull is alleged to have caught… September 14, 2016 In "News" The separate cases involving Tyityaba nature reserve manager Karl Krull, his co-accused Siza Masentile and the two's accusers Lwando Folokwe and Akhona Dyantyi were yesterday postponed to next month in the Komgha Magistrate's Court. Krull and Masentile appeared on charges of attempted murder, pointing of a firearm, assault and crimen… September 13, 2016 In "News"