Electricity parastatal Eskom has taken action to recover R1-billion and R564-million respectively from McKinsey and Trillian which it says appears to have been unlawfully paid to the two companies in 2016 and 2017.  Eskom said on Thursday night that the interim findings from its investigations into the circumstances surrounding payments made to both the companies‚ pointed to certain decisions by Eskom‚ and resultant payments‚ as being unlawful‚ “Eskom is obliged‚ pursuant to its statutory and common law duties‚ including the PFMA (Public Finance Management Act) and the Companies Act‚ to seek to set aside these unlawful decisions and to have all the money unlawfully paid out returned. Accordingly‚ Eskom wrote to each explaining the action it would take and requesting their cooperation in the matter. “Being such a critical entity‚ which is inextricably tied to the nation’s economy‚ it is in the public interest to do everything we can as Eskom to claw back all the fees which were unlawfully paid‚ while expediting the disciplinary processes currently underway‚” the electricity provider said. Eskom has delayed releasing its full-year financial results on Tuesday. Eskom cancelled its presentation at the eleventh hour‚ saying on Monday evening that the reporting is postponed "until further notice". It has not given reasons for the cancellation‚ but Eskom auditors have raised red flags about serious reporting irregularities. On… July 11, 2017 In "Featured" Public enterprises minister Lynne Brown has been drawn into the saga around how the influential Gupta family acquired a mine that gained lucrative contracts from power utility Eskom. The amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism reported on Thursday that Brown had misled parliament when she was asked whether Eskom had signed… May 18, 2017 In "News" Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown says she has asked Eskom to submit its response to a request by the National Treasury on its probe into contracts Eskom has with Gupta family-owned Tegeta Exploration & Resources. Eskom and the National Treasury have been in a war of words since Monday on… August 30, 2016 In "News"