The report of the Commission of Inquiry which investigated the feasibility of making higher education and training fee-free in South Africa could be released this week.  The Presidency said on Saturday that the report would be released immediately after consultations with relevant ministries were finalised‚ which is expected to be during the course of the week. The commission’s final report was received by President Jacob Zuma on August 30. “The Presidency has been working on the report since the date the President received it. The Presidency is now finalising the processing of the report which requires‚ among other things‚ that the Presidency consult with the relevant Ministers to ensure that government is ready to implement the President’s decision as soon he releases the report. The consultations with relevant Ministries is at an advanced stage and it is expected that it will be finalised during the course of next week. “The President will release the report immediately thereafter‚” the Presidency said in a statement. The commission‚ which was chaired by Justice Arthur Heher‚ assisted by Adv Gregory Ally and Ms Leah Thembisile Khumalo‚ was appointed by Zuma on January 14 2016. It was expected to complete its work within 18 months. However‚ it was unable to and its term had to be extended till the end of June this year. – TimesLIVE With student protests beginning to flare up again at various campuses across the country‚ the University of Cape Town Vice-Chancellor‚ Dr Max Price‚ has expressed "grave concern" at the delayed release of the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Higher Education and Training established nearly 24 months ago. President… October 24, 2017 In "News" “Media reports with regards to university fee increases for 2017” prompted the Presidency to issue a statement saying “consultations within government and with stakeholders in the higher education sector are still taking place”. It was unclear what reports the Presidency was referring to‚ but two groups – the South African… August 22, 2016 In "News" The Presidency today rejected suggestions by a Marikana defence attorney that Jacob Zuma is delaying the release of a report into the killings to buy time to deal with top police officials. In media reports at the weekend‚ lawyer Andries Nkome linked Zuma to the reported retirement of North West… May 25, 2015 In "News"