Christopher Panayiotou’s lawyer said in his many years in law‚ this was the dirtiest case he had ever been involved in. Advocate Terry Price SC criticised a string of lawyers and police officers as he outlined why he believed Panayiotou should be acquitted of his wife Jayde’s murder. In addressing the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday‚ Price said investigating officer Captain Kanna Swanepoel should be jailed for being a serial liar. In addition‚ he said‚ the lawyers that represented middleman Luthando Siyoni should be wrapped over the knuckles for their unprofessional conduct‚ that Siyoni’s arresting officer‚ Colonel Willie Mayi‚ was a serial “beater upper” and that the state came to court with muddy hands. “It is terrible to acquit a guilty person but a person’s rights cannot be trampled on. We can’t allow [the cops] to do as they please.” Argument continues on Tuesday afternoon. Christopher Panayiotou’s legal team poked holes in the state’s case on Tuesday‚ accusing the police of underhanded tactics and the prosecution of misleading the court. It also questioned the admissibility of the state’s key witness’s confession. The businessman‚ 30‚ the alleged mastermind behind the murder of his wife‚ Uitenhage school… May 18, 2016 In "News" The magistrate presiding over the bail hearing of Christopher Panayiotou on Wednesday was angered by the confusion surrounding who was representing him.  Panayiotou stands accused in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court of orchestrating the abduction and murder of his 29-year-old wife‚ Jayde. He began his bail application last week‚ during… May 20, 2015 In "News" The start of the resumption of Christopher Panayiotou’s bail application today was delayed after magistrate Abigail Beeton reportedly said she needed some time. Remarkably‚ Beeton has up until now shown her displeasure at numerous requests for adjournments and unexpected delays to proceedings. In another unusual development‚ Jayde Panayiotou’s mother and… May 27, 2015 In "News"