First it was clothes‚ then electronic goods and baby formula. Now it is meat. Retailers waging a battle against grocery store shoplifting are adopting unorthodox crime prevention measures by placing electronic security tags on expensive cuts of meat. The food tags work in the same way as on items such as clothes. Exit the shop without paying for the chunk of steak and an alarm goes off. Sowetan observed a packer gingerly placing the strange tags on meat this week at one retail chain store west of Johannesburg. The drastic measure is apparently a direct response to a rise in shoplifting of unconventional goods like meat in tough economic times. In the past‚ tagging was reserved for goods like CDs. Last week Sowetan reported that a Kliptown policewoman was caught shoplifting meat worth R620 at a Pick n Pay store in Lenasia. She has been released on R500 bail. Now security at major supermarkets has been stepped up ahead of Christmas. “We put tags on the meat because it gets stolen a lot lately‚” said an employee of a Pick n Pay store. “But the thieves have gotten smarter so we have to find other ways of protecting the meat.” Sowetan http://www.sowetanlive.co.za/news/2017/10/09/shoplifters-add-meat-to-their-loot   Source: TMG Digital. Retailers obey laws after meat scandal breaks. A SPOT check was carried out at various retail outlets around East London last week and found that all major grocery stores were complying with new meat labelling regulations. This comes after the the meat industry was thoroughly scandalised last year when a… May 19, 2014 In "Business" According to the Global Retail Theft Barometer, South Africa is among the top five countries hardest hit by shoplifting, or as the industry terms it, “shrinkage”. And that’s not just bad news for the companies – prices are inflated to off-set shrinkage, and store staff are on high alert for… January 12, 2015 In "Opinion" By: Naledi Shange And Kgaugelo Masweneng More people are ditching the butchery aisle in retail stores‚ cutting out the middle man and turning to bulk meat-buying to save money. “If I were to buy the same amount of meat at retail stores‚ I would need a loan the following day‚… July 26, 2017 In "Business"