Five men accused of robbing ANC MP Jackson Mthembu in 2014 will wait until next year for their trial to begin in the eMalahleni Magistrate’s Court. Ayanda Fanyana Nkosi‚ 23‚ Vuyisile Daniel Ncabe‚ 23‚ Sifiso Howard Mthimunye‚ 23‚ Makhosonke Joseph Mothapo‚ 23 and Jerry Vuyo Rayi‚ 24‚ are accused of robbing Mthembu and another man. They appeared in the eMalahleni Magistrate’s Court today. The group faces two counts of robbery and one of attempted murder. Mthembu was withdrawing money at an ATM in eMalahleni in Mpumalanga when the men pounced on him. He allegedly turned to face his attackers and tried to disarm one of them. Mthembu was shot in the chin and chest in the process. Mthembu was robbed of two cellphones‚ a handbag and car keys. Another man who was travelling with Mthembu was also robbed of his cellphone. The matter was postponed because witnesses were not available to testify earlier today. Defence lawyers objected to one of the witnesses who was present to testify because she did not make a written statement. Prosecutor Francois Brandt apologised for the postponement saying it was a mistake on his part. “The state acknowledges the (delay). It is my own mistake that I did not secure the statements‚” he said. Magistrate Merlene Greyvenstein was not happy with the delay‚ saying she was under pressure to conclude the matter. “This is very disturbing and very frustrating… This is one matter I am under pressure to finish. I have to report to the Judge President (about the progress)‚” she said. – TimesLIVE African National Congress MP Jackson Mthembu was shot in the face while withdrawing money at an ATM in Witbank at the weekend, Mpumalanga police said.Mthembu was using an Absa ATM on Mandela Street in the Witbank CBD on Sunday when an armed man approached him, Brigadier Selvy Mohlala said. "The… October 20, 2014 In "News" FORMER ANC spokesman Jackson Mthembu is in a stable condition in a hospital intensive care unit (ICU) after being shot at the weekend. Mthembu – who is chairman of the parliamentary portfolio committee on environmental affairs –  was shot in his  chest as he withdrew money from an ATM. He… October 21, 2014 In "News" ANC MP Jackson Mthembu was discharged from hospital on Wednesday morning following treatment after he was shot in a robbery, the ruling party said. Mthembu left the Emalahleni Private Hospital where he had spent 10 days since being shot on October 19, spokesman Zizi Kodwa said in a statement. Mthembu… October 29, 2014 In "News"