The rand was significantly weaker on Thursday morning‚ signalling investors’ concern about the precarious state of SA’s finances‚ which were laid bare during Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s medium-term budget policy statement on Wednesday.  The local currency bought a single dollar at close to R14.20‚ its weakest level in about a year — a development that potentially closes the window for the Reserve Bank to cut interest rates later in the year. It was by far the worst-performing currency against the dollar out of 19 emerging-market currencies ranked by Bloomberg. The medium-term budget also revived concern that rating agencies could downgrade the country’s debt rating as soon as November‚ when they are scheduled to announce their reviews. The substantially weaker rand and bonds suggested investors were pricing in the likelihood of a sovereign rating downgrade. The yield on benchmark R186 rose to its highest in a year. Gigaba said revenue in the 2017-18 financial year was projected to fall short by R50.8bn and spending to increase by R3.9bn — both higher than markets had expected. The breach of the expenditure ceiling was largely due to the bail-out of embattled state-owned enterprises‚ including South African Airways (SAA) and the South African Post Office (Sapo). “The odds have swung heavily in favour of the ‘junk status’ tag and foreigners expressed their concerns by dumping in excess of R5bn worth of bonds‚” said Ashley Dickinson‚ head of fixed income dealing at Sasfin Wealth. The bleak picture of the country’s finances comes amid political uncertainty as the ANC heads to its conference in December to choose a successor to President Jacob Zuma. At 9.37am on Thursday‚ the rand was R14.1984 to the dollar from Wednesday’s R14.0502‚ R16.7823 to the euro from R16.5850 and to R18.8015 to the pound from R18.6180. The euro was at $1.1820 from $1.1804. – BusinessLIVE South African bonds were weaker in afternoon trade on Tuesday as the market followed a softer rand following President Jacob Zuma’s 12th Cabinet reshuffle since 2009‚ and his second in 2017. Among those moved were former state security minister David Mahlobo‚ who has been moved to the energy portfolio and… October 17, 2017 In "Business" Incoming finance minister Malusi Gigaba has begun the work of allaying concerns about South Africa’s economic future. The newly appointed minister held teleconferences with international rating agencies on Friday afternoon “to give assurances about the future”. Gigaba met with Treasury Director General Lungisa Fuzile and the department’s executive committee on… April 1, 2017 In "Politics" The South African bond market was weaker at midday on Monday after the rand lost 30c against the dollar in choppy trade. Bonds yields have risen‚ meaning prices have fallen‚ following President Jacob Zuma’s Cabinet reshuffle last week in which Malusi Gigaba replaced Pravin Gordhan as finance minister. The rand… April 3, 2017 In "Business"