Nelson Mandela’s grandson Chief Mandla Mandela hailed his sister Ndileka’s disclosure of rape in her own home as an encouragement in every household in South Africa to engage in a bold dialogue to confront the scourge. Mandla said for Ndileka to have kept the alleged rape to herself for more than five years proved that South Africa was a sick country, and thousands were yet to speak openly about their ordeals. He said Ndileka drew on Madiba’s own example of disclosing their late father, Chief Zwelinzima Makgatho Lewanika Mandela’s HIV status, and used it as an inspiration to add her voice to the growing list of women worldwide joining in the #Metoo campaign. “We call on the fathers, brothers, sisters and mothers of our nation – all of us – to end the silence and deal with this problem gnawing at the heart of our nation. Inkosazana’s [the princess’s] disclosure must spur every home to create a safe space in which victims can muster the courage to speak about their ordeal and get the psychological support that every victim of rape deserves. “We know rape occurs largely in the home or familiar surroundings. We must break the silence and tell the cowards that we will not be passive bystanders and, as with our struggle against apartheid, we shall overcome,” he said. — lulamilef@dispatch.co.za Chief Mandla Mandela has come out in support of his sister‚ Ndileka Mandela‚ who bravely revealed that she had been raped five years ago by a boyfriend. Ndileka set social media abuzz when she took to Facebook on Tuesday to tell her story. She was raped in her own bedroom… October 25, 2017 In "News" TRIBAL authorities have said that whether anyone likes it or not, Mandla Mandela is the correct head of the Mandela family. “Whether we like Mandla or not, he is the only person we are looking to for the leadership of the Mandela family,” AbaThembu royal spokesman Mfundo Mtirara said yesterday.… December 20, 2013 In "News" Mandla Mandela has written an “open letter” in response to his cousin Ndileka Mandela’s statement last week that she would no longer vote for the ANC. The eldest granddaughter of former president Nelson Mandela said she had taken the decision in the wake of a recent scandal over deaths of… March 20, 2017 In "Featured"