The medium-term budget policy statement does not include any new tax measures but finance minister Malusi Gigaba has not ruled them out for next year. Gigaba said in a media conference ahead of his budget speech that changes to the tax regime are usually dealt with in his main budget to be delivered in February. Gigaba said the Judge Dennis Davis Tax commission must first deal with the issue before any new tax measures could be introduced. He said the past four budgets had seen fiscal consolidation using both cuts in expenditure and an increase in taxes. He said in introducing new taxes‚ he would need to consider what South Africans would be able to stomach. “It is not fiscal consolidation that South Africa needs. It’s a new path all together‚” he said. In his medium term budget policy statement Gigaba states that “new spending initiatives can only be accommodated through reprioritisation or parallel tax increases”. However‚ he pointed out that there was “little space for tax increases in the current environment”. He said the Health Promotion Levy or so-called “sugar tax” is currently under consideration in Parliament with a proposed start date of April next year. The National Treasury was also considering new ways of managing tax benefits related to medical aid schemes‚ which could including their scrapping. The revised Carbon Tax Bill will also be published shortly for comment‚ he said. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has revealed that the gross national debt will shoot up to R3.4-trillion or 60% of GDP by 2020 as government is forced to borrow more to fund its policy plans. Presenting his medium-term budget policy statement in parliament yesterday, Gigaba painted a grim picture of the… October 26, 2017 In "Featured" Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has revealed that the gross national debt will shoot up to R3.4-trillion or 60 percent of GDP by 2020 as government is forced to borrow more to fund its policy plans. Presenting his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement in parliament on Wednesday‚ Gigaba painted a grim picture… October 25, 2017 In "News" Wednesday's medium term budget policy statement will be a "defining moment" for finance minister Malusi Gigaba who is not "trusted by the markets"‚ says the Democratic Alliance. Democratic Alliance spokesman on finance David Maynier said at a pre-MTBPS media conference on Monday that Gigaba's maiden budget speech as finance minister… October 23, 2017 In "Politics"