Four accommodation establishments in the eastern region of the province won their categories in the annual Sanlam Top Destination awards, held in Cape Town last month. Crawford’s Beach Lodge in Chintsa East was one of four winners in the country house category, Ganora Guest Farm near Nieu-Bethesda was named one of the top establishments for farm accommodation, and both Hotel Savoy in Mthatha and Trennery’s Hotel on the Wild Coast were winners in the hotel category. Thirty-five awards were made in 10 categories, after 9700 entries were received. Winners received a variety of prizes including thousands of rands worth of advertising. Crawfords Beach Hotel owner Mark Crawford said this was the third year the seaside hotel had been a winner in this category. “It’s nice to know the guests feel like they are being looked after. I think we do well because our guests come back because we look after their tummies and entertain them, and we don’t stagnate. We are always progressing without losing that personal feel,” he said. In Mthatha, Savoy Hotel general manager Joanne Macdonald said she was thrilled the recently renovated hotel had been recognised. “We are very proud, especially since there were 9700 entries and we are in a small town in the Eastern Cape. We are especially proud because the awards are based on guest reviews and on mystery guests who visit us, as well as public votes.” Ganora Guest Farm owner Hester Steynsberg said the unique nature of the guest farm, situated 7km from Nieu-Bethesda, contributed to its win in the farm accommodation category. “We are a working sheep farm so guests can feed the lambs and see the sheep shearing exhibit. We also have a private fossil collection, fossil walks, a medicinal plant walk and Bushman rock art. We are very proud to win this award, especially because it is national.” Trennery’s Hotel marketing manager Leigh Myles said service excellence and the hotel’s affordable family holidays by the sea were the formula for the hotel’s win. “We are very impressed with the Sanlam Top Destination Awards because they boost tourism. Everybody likes to stay in an award-winning hotel.” — barbarah@dispatch.co.za Seasoned Eastern Cape tour guide, Velile Ndlumbini has been acknowledged as the best in the province. Ndlumbini received the accolade at the Buffalo City Metro’s Lilizela awards – in which it honours the best in the tourism industry – on Thursday at The Venue at Hemingways Casino. Ndlumbini, owner of Imonti… September 26, 2016 In "News" South Africa's eldest tour guide Mam’ Winifred Tofu who died at the age of 96 last year, was remembered and celebrated for her enormous contribution to tourism at the provincial Lilizela awards held in East London on Thursday evening. The ceremony was held at The Venue@Hemingways. Tofu was posthumously awarded… September 24, 2017 In "News" It was the incredible support she received from her class teacher during her father’s battle with cancer that prompted a Hudson Park Primary School pupil to nominate her teacher for a national award. Under the theme “Celebrate the real heroes this Teachers’ Day”, the Woolworths-sponsored competition saw Grade 6 pupil… October 14, 2015 In "Metro"