Routes to OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg have been blocked by protesting truck and taxi drivers‚ airport officials said on Friday. “It has been brought to our attention by the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Police Department and the South African Police Service that the R21 and R24 are currently being blocked by protesting metered taxis and truck drivers‚” airport spokesperson Leigh Gunkel-Keuler said in a statement. “We have been informed that it is the specific intention of the protesting drivers to block access to O. R. Tambo International Airport. At this stage the EMPD and South African Police Service are on high alert in and around the airport precinct. “Passengers and travellers to the airport need to proceed with caution as they make their way to the airport as we are not yet able to gauge the impact this will have on access to the airport this morning. However what is known is that road travellers on both the R21 and R24 this morning may experience major delays and therefore need to prepare for such.”   -TimesLIVE Traffic ground to a halt and caused chaos on the R24 highway leading to OR Tambo International Airport on Friday morning as metered taxi drivers blocked the highway in protest. Angry commuters missed early morning flights and accused the taxi drivers of “bullying tactics” in their protest‚ which appeared to… March 10, 2017 In "News" A South African Revenue Service (Sars) Custom Control dog sniffed out two consignments of drugs worth more than R500000 at OR Tambo International Airport on Monday. The first was 77 1kg blocks of compressed cannabis — valued at R107800 – in a parcel “declared as Citronella Scented Wax Melts” en… February 2, 2016 In "News" Those intending to commit crime at OR Tambo international airport will have to think twice before doing so as specialised police units will be deployed to keep a watchful eye on any suspected criminal activities. This stern waning was issued by Police Minster Fikile Mbalula on Monday. "We have noted… July 10, 2017 In "News"