By: Mava B Scott The decision by the Buffalo City Metro to cut ties with Chippa United Football Club flies in the face of the developmental vision of the metro. This relationship, which has lasted only three years, has contributed immensely – not only to the sports tourism sector in the metro, but has also ignited passion and love for football across the board. Many will recall how the people of the province were devastated by the departure of home outfits such as Umtata Bucks and Bay United which had inspired confidence in the local youth and delighted football fans across the province. The emergence of Chippa United as a local football brand was a relief and an inspiration for football lovers who have supported local football with all their hearts and minds. It boggles the mind that suddenly the executive mayor, who in his state of the city address (Soca) not so long ago was singing praises about the benefits of this relationship for the tourism sector, would suddenly turn his back on the same partnership. In his own words mayor Xola Pakati said: “Our partnership with Chippa United Football Club continues to be a success and attracts a number of supporters both from within the metro and outside…. This past season has proven to be bigger than the previous one. We hosted, as the city, the current CAF champions Mamelodi Sundowns, the current PSL champions Wits, and [neither] could secure a victory against the home side, Chippa United FC.” The question staring everyone in the face is, what happened to cause the mayor to turn from his sterling enthusiasm and capitulate on his commitments to this partnership and his convictions about it. Could it be that the change of leadership in the province has influenced his decision on the matter? The reason advanced to the public is that the relationship has become unsustainable. Really? When did the metro become aware of this unsustainability? Where is the cost benefit analysis and where are the figures to prove the need for this sudden turn of events? If indeed the figures are too high for the metro to be able to continue with the deal, did the mayor or council make any recommendations such as a partnership at all? If the rough estimate of the proposed costs are 6%, is it worth losing the entire deal rather than asking Chippa United to review its budget for the project? Why throw the baby out with the bath water? Whatever the case may be, the reality is this decision will deprive the metro of sure potential for growing the sports tourism sector. In addition it will deprive the local football fans of a healthy pastime, and will hurt the small and medium enterprises and members of the taxi industry who were beginning to flourish as a result of the city hosting big games. It’s also no secret that these big games are televised on national platforms and give the city much- needed exposure and marketing benefits. This will all go down the drain because some political caucus somewhere evidently decided the partnership did not fit with its own ambitions. Under such circumstances, the city might as well abandon its sports tourism ambitions – that of being a cutting edge sports destination of choice, especially in relation to soccer. This must be so after the decision to jettison a football team that took a hard decision to embrace a dilapidated football space and infrastructure as its football home. Let’s face it, as part of this deal Chippa United did what no other national club would do – take on Sisa Dukashe Stadium and invest its scant resources in helping to make it a developmental hub for the region. To again repeat the words of the mayor: “The economic impact of Chippa United Football Club on Buffalo City Metro is the wealth created in BCM as a result of the football club being partially based in the city”. If the executive mayor believes his own vision which he eloquently elaborated on in his Soca, he needs to go back to his comrades and remind them of what he promised to the people of the metro and its surroundings. He needs to remind them of the imperatives of the metro growth and development strategy which identified tourism as one of the strategic economic sectors with the potential to develop and assist in growing the regional economy and creating jobs. He must put into practice his pledge “to invest resources in cultivating lifestyle tourism through supporting a number of lifestyle events that continue to attract tourists into the city and contribute to the sustainability of our hospitality industry”. The youth of Mdantsane and surrounding areas who were beginning to embrace the developmental initiatives that Chippa United brought in through its local outreach programmes in schools deserve an explanation and some respect. The same applies to local vendors and small business entrepreneurs who have made this initiative an anchor of their business sustainability. The clarion call and vision statement espoused by mayor Pakati; “Unity in Action – A City Hard at Work” must find expression in consolidating the development agenda of the city, not destroying it. We must not allow political expediency to undermine the developmental agenda of the city. Mava B Scott is from Cathcart in the Amathole district   Buffalo City Metro (BCM) will see yet another top-flight football match when Eastern Cape-based Chippa United hosts Pretoria’s SuperSport United at Mdantsane’s Sisa Dukashe Stadium next month. The two football giants are set to lock horns in a Nedbank Cup semifinal clash scheduled for May 20. The clash will… April 27, 2017 In "Featured" Assuring soccer fans that Chippa United would still play some of their games at Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane, club boss Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi has insisted he would foot the bill to take their matches to Buffalo City Metro. Mpengesi was responding to BCM Mayor Xola Pakati’s statement to councillors… October 27, 2017 In "News" A defiant Buffalo City Metro municipality head of the LOC for Chippa United matches earmarked for East London, Sthembiso Khanyile has laughed off court interdict threats by the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro to stop the Chilli Boys from hosting their matches in the city as “wrong in law and logic”.… February 11, 2016 In "Sport"