Flooding and driving rain has forced the closure of the N2 freeway near Amanzimtoti as KwaZulu-Natal braces for severe weather on Tuesday.  Occupants of a minibus taxi that was stricken by rising water on the freeway were rescued by paramedics on Tuesday morning. Rescuecare spokesperson Garrith Jamieson said that medics had rushed to the scene to find the fully laden minibus listing to one side. “The taxi had been driving through the rising waters when it got stuck. Paramedics helped the occupants of the taxi to safety. The road has been completely closed‚” he said. Paramedics also responded to a call in Kingsway Road‚ where gushing water had entrapped occupants of a house. The occupants were safely rescued. This follows a night of heavy rain with rivers in Pietermaritzburg and Durban breaking their banks. Police search and rescue technicians were called to the Madiba low-level bridge in Sobantu outside Pietermaritzburg after a man was swept away by the water. The officers‚ with the aid of a sniffer dog‚ searched the banks of the river but were unable to find the man. The search was halted by an approaching storm and diminishing light and is expected to resume when it is safe. City engineers from the eThekwini Municipality are also assessing damage at various locations. Police search and rescue emergency workers are en route to the Prince Mshyeni hospital in Umlazi after a call that part of roof has collapsed. This is a developing story. – TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. More than 20 people, including a soldier based in Grahamstown, lost their lives on roads across the province at the weekend. Scores more were injured, some critically. Yesterday provincial transport spokesman Ncedo Kumbaca said 22 people had been killed in 11 separate accidents between Friday and yesterday. He attributed the… May 9, 2016 In "News" Eleven people died in two crashes on Eastern Cape roads at the weekend and 18 others were seriously injured. Arrive Alive spokesman Tshepo Machaea said among those who died in both accidents had been people on their way to attend funerals. The first accident happened at about 4.50am on Saturday… April 28, 2015 In "News" The death toll in the accident which took place on the R61 between Ngcobo and Mthatha on Tuesday has increased from six to nine. Since December 6, 17 people have been killed in three crashes on this stretch of the road. Police spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Mzukisi Fatyela said yesterday that while… December 17, 2015 In "News"