Sexual assault charges against a well-known East London paediatrician have been withdrawn in the East London Magistrate’s Court. 
Magistrate Rochelle Sam declined this morning to grant the National Prosecuting Authority a further extension on the case. This after state prosecutor on the case Asanda Nolusu told the magistrate that the state was still waiting for a decision of the Director of Public Prosecutions in Grahamstown whether to prosecute the doctor or not.  His lawyer Angus Pringle objected to further postponement arguing the matter has been on the roll since June. Pringle said the state was further given two months from August to acquire the DPP’s decision. Nolusu said there was no indication why a decision had not yet been reached although the DPP was made aware of the case. Pringle refused to budge by adding the case be struck off the roll. He said the state could re-enrol the charges once they are ready to prosecute. He said as far as he  was concerned he was still not aware of the charges facing his client.  The magistrate was left with no choice but to withdraw the charges.   The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in Grahamstown has ordered the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit to further investigate allegations of sexual assault against a well-known East London paediatrician. The state was awaiting further instruction on the case from the DPP when he wrote to them this… August 26, 2017 In "News" Disgraced Aliwal North Detective Constable Romeo Sarin Oerson has now appointed an attorney to defend him from a charge of escaping in custody in the East London Magistrate's Court. The shackled detective appeared before magistrate Rochelle Sam this morning being represented by Zolile Sompunzi of B Macingwane Attorneys. Sompunzi told the… September 20, 2017 In "News" A well-known East London paediatrician will know next month whether he will face sexual assault charges. The 64-year-old doctor who cannot be named as he has not yet pleaded was arrested last month for allegedly fondling the private parts of his patients’ mothers during consultations in his Beacon Bay practice.… July 13, 2017 In "Featured"