Families looking to bury their loved ones in the Western Cape may experience delays as the Forensic Pathology Services are dealing with a high number of unnatural deaths. “This high case load has resulted in us being unable to prioritise cases‚” said spokesperson Robert Daniels on Wednesday. “Cases will now be allocated and autopsies performed in chronological order. We do recognise that the time of bereavement is a stressful and difficult period and for this reason we are doing everything we can to speed up and also streamline the process. Your understanding and support in this time is greatly appreciated‚” Daniels said in a statement. He said that there would be possible delays in finalising post-mortem examinations. The delays were the result of an increase in cases of unnatural deaths that required further investigation. “We request that clients please remain in regular contact with the Tygerberg and Salt River Forensic Pathology Services to find out the progress being made with the medico-legal management of a loved one.” – TimesLIVE   Source: TMG Digital. Murder accused property mogul Jason Rohde is due to appear for the first time in the high court in Cape Town on Friday for a pre-trial hearing. The former Lew Geffen/Sotheby's International Realty CEO is charged with murdering his wife‚ Susan‚ and obstructing the administration of justice by making her… August 18, 2017 In "News" February is supposed to be the month of love. But on February 27‚ 2016‚ Susan Rohde discovered that her husband of more than two decades had been having an affair with one of the estate agents at his company. Months later Susan's body was found in their hotel suite with… July 25, 2017 In "News" A DEADLY and highly contagious disease could be behind an Eastern Cape health employee’s sudden illness and subsequent admission to an isolation ward at an East London private hospital. Noluvuyo Maseti, who works at the Woodbrook Forensic Pathology Services on the West Bank in East London, was taken to hospital… September 18, 2013 In "Metro"