By: Tamar Kahn The National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS) received a qualified audit for 2016-17 after its auditors‚ SizweNtsalubaGobodo‚ highlighted irregular expenditure of more than R1bn and cast doubt on its ability to continue as a going concern because it reported a R1.879bn deficit for the year. The deficit represents a significant swing into the red‚ as the NHLS reported a surplus of R273m the year before. The NHLS provides all the tests used for diagnosing and monitoring diseases among state patients and is thus considered the backbone of the health service. It also provides tests to the private sector including some highly specialised tests that private providers do not offer. The irregular expenditure highlighted by the auditors included R574.9m paid for expired contracts‚ R209.6m paid for contracts that exceeded the delegation of authority and R195m paid to suppliers without contracts in place. Business Day https://www.businesslive.co.za/bd/national/health/2017-10-11-is-the-national-health-laboratory-service-still-a-going-concern/   Source: TMG Digital. The strike at the National Health Laboratory Service (NHLS) entered its fourth day on Monday as unions presented a revised wage offer to their members. The strike - which began on Wednesday - has crippled the service‚ which provides laboratory and related public health services to over 80% of the… July 31, 2017 In "News" IT is at this time of the year that annual reports of Eastern Cape departments and the entities that report to them are tabled in the legislature along with the auditor-general’s report on their financial statements. The Eastern Cape, it needs to be stated, is making progress with regard to… November 11, 2013 In "Opinion" The spending of public funds without adhering to prescribed legislation continues to rise, with irregular expenditure climbing from R27-billion last year to more than R62-billion in March this year. This was revealed by Auditor-General Kimi Makwetu’s consolidated report on audit outcomes of all national and provincial government departments for the… November 27, 2014 In "News"