The spacious dining-room of Quigney’s Langham House has become a hub of creative activity as veined, delicate hands sort through gleaming mirror shards and glittering beads and fashion them into works of art.  The old-age home residents have discovered their inner arty side ever since toymaker Michelle Edouard came into their lives and now spend every weekend morning making colourful decor items that are taking Facebook by storm. “They are even starting to get commissions,” said Edouard, 56, who stepped into Langham House eight months ago to visit a friend’s mother and now spends most of her mornings there. “I visited a friend’s mom and fell in love with all the little ladies in the dementia ward. We would sing and dance and do our nails and then it spilt over into the rest of Langham House. I couldn’t go there and not say hello to everyone else. “Three weeks ago I thought it would be cool to do mosaics with them and this week we have started beaded sun-catchers,” said Edouard who lives close to the Fleet Street old-age home. Thanks to boxes, jars and baskets of donated tiles, mirror and beads, the dining hall transforms into an art studio between 10am and noon daily with women bent over vibrant pieces they hope to sell at the Maren Oppie Plaas farmer’s market, in Thornpark, on November 4. Elvis Presley croons through the speakers as glossy materials are cut and glued into place. “Some have real talent and find a place inside themselves they never knew they had,” said Edouard, who has posted some of the finished pieces on various Facebook pages. “I put the photos on Facebook to show our donors that their materials were being used, but then compliments and orders started coming in. “So I made photocopies or all the comments and showed them to the ladies. They were thrilled.” Edouard said a portion of the sale goes into buying more art supplies and another cut is given to Langham House employees Olivia Kolisi and Thembisile Langman who help cut and grout tile. “I cut mirror and tile into different shapes and sizes,” said Kolisi, who has worked in the kitchen since 1998. “Michelle has helped us a lot because now the old people don’t just stay in their rooms. And it’s nice to make a few extra rand for the taxi.” For Jenny du Plessis, 73, this new arty enterprise is serious business. She has already made 23 necklaces, 12 bracelets and several mosaics and keeps a neat record of sales and commissions. “I’ve sold almost all of them and so I have to make up stock for the market on November 4.” Former estate agent Colleen McLarnon, 67, was intently applying mirrors and tiles to letters spelling “family” and said mosaicing was “something to do”. “Yesterday I made a sun-catcher and someone bought it for R40. It made me feel like I achieved something. It has given me a new lease on life.” “Michelle is a blessing,” said kitchen supervisor Desrae Beckett. “She comes here in her own time and gets people’s creative side out.”   l Anyone wishing to donate supplies, buy an art piece or volunteer to help teach art at one of East London’s other old-age homes, may call Michelle Edouard on 078-644-3739. — barbarah@dispatch.co.za For eight years, a Beacon Bay house was the epitome of Christmas magic, drawing hundreds of shiny-eyed children to see it lit up with snowmen, stars and Santas, but next week the festive lights will relocate to celebrate Christmas in July. Philanthropist Di Grassi, who turned her passion for neon… July 8, 2017 In "Lifestyle" When Sam Gouws was retrenched from her job as a human resources manager in August she decided to use her time to bring Christmas cheer to East London’s senior citizens. What started off as a mini campaign to urge family and friends to pledge Father Christmas shoeboxes to residents of… October 28, 2016 In "News" Pockets of Beacon Bay have again been transformed into a magical Christmas wonderland of festive lights and music. At Nevette and Derick Greyvenstein’s home in Kelvin Grove Street, visitors can enjoy a hi-tech music show featuring dancing lights choreographed to Christmas song re-mixes. X-ray technician Derick has set up a… December 10, 2015 In "News"